■1 



! 



I 



.Afo^AAA.^ 






u fi^ 



\^. 



1 

y 




Given By 



t 



Hv s. \^■^-^Y np ^^% 



3^ 



/tj. 



"^J \.^&gt;^ -'''■'■■■■' ^ 






(J Y'^^^ 'i ^i^tt/t'^^^^ 




iA^^ 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

Boston Public Library 



http://www.archive.org/details/burtonsgentleman1839burt 



BURTON'S 



GENTLEMAN'S MAGAZINE. 



EDITED B X 



WILLIAM E. BURTON AND EDGAR A. POE. 



VOLUME y 



FROM JULY TO DECEMBER. 




By a gentleman, we mean not to draw a line that would be invidious between high and low, rank and subordina- 
tion, riches anil poverty. No. The distinction is in the mind. Whoever is open, just, and true ; whoever is of a 
humane and affable demeanor; whoever is honorable in himself, and in his judgment of others, and requires no 
law but his word to make him fulfil an engagement ;— such a man is a f;entleman ;— and such a man may De found 
among the tillers of the earth as well as in the drawing rooms of the high born and the rich. 

De Vkre. 



PHILADELPHIA. 

PUBLISHED BY WILLIAM E. BURTON, 

DOCK. STHEET, OPPOSITE THE EXCHAXGE. 



1 839 



-H 



r 



'V 



4.C' 



,»!»«*- 1 jf »„ «»" 



6 i « S 



ExMBELLISHMENTS. 



Engraved Emblematical Frontispiece. 

Vignette of Dr. Franklin. 

Shakspeare Performing before Queen Elizabeth and her Court, 10 

Saxon Bow and Arrow, 53 

The Archery Meeting, . . . . ' . , . . 55 

The Gamekeeper's Fireside, . . . . . . . 6S 

Costume of the United Bowmen of Philadelphia, , . i 109 
Portrait of Richard Penn Smith, . . . . . . .118 

The Interior of Barrett's Gymnasium, Walnut street, Philadelphia, 163 
The Musical Bore, . . . . . , . . - 174 

The Parallel Bars, 222 

Leaping Bars, .......... 222 

The Wooden Horse, . .223 

The Climbing Stand, ......... 324 

East Front of the Capitol at Washington City, . - . .230 
The Game of Cricket, ........ 277 

A Cape Codder among the Mermaids, ..... 285- 



CONT 



A. 

PAGE. 

Arrest, The, - 21 

American War, A Tale of the Late, 37, 71, 124, 

193, 237, 293 

American History, Romance of, 43 

Archery, its Origin and Estimation, . ... 52 
Advice to a Young Gentleman, Notice of . 61 
Academy of Fine Arts, in Philadelphia, Half 

an Hour in, 78 

Arkansas, Letter from a Settler in, .... 85 
Archery, its Implements and Regulations, . 106 

Arrow, The 108 

Pile of The 110 

Nock of The, 110 

Attitude Ill 

Aim, Of Taking, HI 

America, Discovery of in the Tenth Century, 153 
American Flower-Garden Companion, Notice 

of, 168 

American Fruit-Garden Companion, Notice of 168 

Algic Researches, Notice of 173 

Arab, Smg of the 188 

Abbey, A Frenchman's Reflections in West- 
minster, 197 

B. 

Brazilian Story, 23 

Brougham's Sketches, Notice of, .... 62 
Bugaboo and ]^ickapoo Campaign, a Tale of, 66 

Barbary, Cruise off, 101 

Before Tripoli, 102 

Bow, The, 106 

Proving the, 107 

Bracer, The 110 

Belt and Tassel, The, 110 

Bow, Drawing the, Ill 

Barber of Pans, Notice of, 113 

Biography of R. P. Smith, 119 

Box, The Infernal, 130, 182 

Burial Place, Meditation in a, 135 

Birds and Flowers, Notice of, 166 

Brideof Fort Edward, Notice of, , . . . 168 

Bore, The Musical 175 

Battles, The Three 179, 226 

Baron Von Biedenfeld,TaIe from the German 

of, 200 

Bars, The Parallel, • . 222 

— — Leaping, 222 

Exercising on the, 323 

Brougham's Opinions, Notice of, 230 

Bird of the West, a Poem 235 

Bereavement, a Poem 276 

Bats, Balls, &amp;c 278 

Bowling Grease, 279 

Bowler," The 280 



C. 

PAGE. 

Cutting out a Letter of Marque, .... 14 

Cur.se of the Flowers, a Poem, 22 

Cross, The White, 23 

Caspian Sea, Eternal Fire on the Banks of the, 35 

Cousins, The, . . , 37 

Childhood, The Friends of Our, a Poem, . . 91 

Cruise off Barbary 101 

Chapter on Field Sports and Manly Pastimes, 

52,106,161,221,277, 32* 

Concealment, Notice of, 112 

Church's Lament for St. John, 129 

Charles Hartland, Notice of, 169 

Continuation of the Diary of the Times of 

George IV., Notice of, 174 

Climbing and Mounting, ....... 224 

CapitoL at VVashington, 231 

Consoiation, a Poem, 266 

Capture of the Java, 273 

Cricket, The Game of, 277 

Choice of Ground, in Cricket, 279 

Coverpoint, in Cricket, 281 

Childhood, a Poem 281 

Canons of Good Breeding, Notice of, . . . 282 
Cain, a Poera 296 



D. 



Drawer, Sweepii:gs from a, . . . . 96, 236 

Dreams, An Opinion on, 105 

Distance for Target Shooting, Hi 

Drawing the Bow, HI 

Defence of Female Education, Notice of, . . 118 

Dying Wife, The, a Poem, 137 

Discovery of America in the Tenth Century, 153 

Doddicombe, Mister Richard, 175 

Dimensions of the Capitol at Washington, . 232 

Death, a Sonnet, 242 

Disposition of the Players, at Cricket, . . . 279 

Damsel of Darien, Notice of, 282 

Disappointment, a Poem, 303 

December, a Poem, 317 



E. 



Eliaabethan Stage, 11 

Early History of Old Ironsides 13 

Encounter, The 19 

Earth and Ocean, a Poem, 26 

Elle me Voit, a Poem, 34 

Eternal Fire on the Banks of the Caspian, Ac- 
count of, 35 

Early Martyrs, Lays of, 129 

Exile's Return, a Poem 196 

Exercising on the Bars^ ........ 223 

Exercise by Suspeniion, 223 



CONTENTS. 



East Front of the Capitol, 234 

Essay on the Literary Prospects of America, . 267 
Eastern Fables 207 



F. 



For whom is the Meed of thy Love, a Poem, 36 
Francia's Reign of Terror, Notice of, . • . 59 

Fireside, The Gamekeeper's, 63 

Fairyland, a Poem, 70 

Friends of our Childhood, a Poem 91 

Feather, The, . .109 

Field Sports and Manly Pastimes, . 52, 106, 161 

221, 277, 324 
Fall of the House of Usher, ...... 45 

Fanny, Notice of, 164 

Fair Shaker, The, a Poem 181 

Frenchman's Reflections in Westminster Ab- 
bey 197 

French Jew, The, 213 

Flora's Lexicon, Notice of, ...... 229 

Fair Rosamond, Notice of, 230 

Forecastle Yarn, . 243 

Fiddle, The Magic, 243 

Fair Maid of Falaise, 260 

First Love, a Sonnet, 263 

Father Butler, Notice of, « 285 

Fire-side Sonnet, 318 



G. 



Gamekeeper's Fireside 63 

Gentleman of the Old School, Notice of . .114 

Gymnastics and Gymnasia, 221 

General Rules for Gymnastic Exercises; . .221 

Gift, The, Notice of, 228 

Geography, Mitchell's, Notice of, ... . 229 
Game of Cricket, 277 



H. 



Hope, a Poem, 12 

Homeward Bound, The, a Poem, .... 18 

History, American, Romance of, 43 

History of the Navy of the U. S., Notice of, . 56 
Half an Hour in the Academy of Fine Arts, . 78 

Historical Sketches, Notice of, 166 

Hauling the Rope, ......... 223 

Hyperion, Notice of, 227 

Hamilton King, Notice of, 230 

Heavens, The, 258 

Hypochondriac Rhymings 259 



Ironsides, Log of Old, 13, 101, 138, 179, 272, 300 

Janthe in Heaven, To, a Poem 49 

Isabel, Notice of, 60 

Inderskoi, The Salt Lake of, 92 

Infernal Box, The 130, 182 

Indian Serenade, 284 



Jubilee of the Constitution, Notice of, . . .114 

K. 
Killing Time in the Jersiesj ...... 213 



L. 

PAGE, 

Log of Old Ironsides, Sketches from the, 13, 101 

138,179^172,300 

Lecture on the Study of History, Notice of, . 58 

Love and Gold, a Poem 83 

Letter from a Settler in Arkansas, .... 85 

Lake of Inderskoi, 92 

Levanter, The 101 

Lays of the Early Martyrs, 129 

Letters of Eliza Wilkinson, Notice of, . . 166 

Love and Wealth, 201 

Land Ho ! a Poem, 220 

Leaping Bars, 222 

Leaping with a Pole, 223 

Library, in Capitol, 233 

Life and Death, Sonnets, 242 

Literary Prospects of America, An Essay on 

the, 267 

Letter over Sea, The, a Poem, ..... 271 

Long Stop, at Cricket, 280 

Long Slip, at Cricket, 280 

Leg, at Cricket, 280 

Longfield off, at Cricket, 281 

Longfield on, at Cricket 281 

Literary Souvenir, The, Notice of, . . . . 286 

M. 

Morocco, a Peep at, 16 

iManly Pastimes, . 52, 106, 161, 221, 277, 320 
Memoirs of Celebrated Women, Notice of, . 60 
Man that was Used up. The, ..... 66 

Miami Valley, The, . ...... 86,.3l5 

Martyr to his Apostate Judge, ..... 129 

Morning's Meditations in a Burial Place, . . 135 

Misler Richard Doddicombe, 175 

Musical Bore, The 175 

Man about Town, Notice of, 230 

Magic Fiddle, The, 243 

Morella, . . , 264 

Middle Wicket, at Cricket, 281 



N. 



New Books, Reviews of, 56,112,164,227,282,327 

JNockoflhe Arrow, in Cricket, 110 

New Orleans after the Battle, 237 

Nan Darrell, Notice of, 286 



O. 



Old Ironsides, Log of, 13, 101, 138, 179, 272, 320 

Ocean, The, a Poem, 84 

Opinion on Dreams, An 105 

Of taking Aim, Ill 

Old Bureau, Rummage in, 156 

Ouphe's Love, The, a Poem, 250 

P. 

Peep at Morocco, A 16 

Privateer, The, . . 37,71,122,193,237,293 

Pontiac, the Ottawa, .43 

Past and Future, The, a Poem, 77 

Provmg the Bow, 107 

Pile of the Arrow, HO 

Phantasmion, Notice of, 112 

Popular Lectures on Geology, Notice of . .115 
Pocket Lacon, The, Notice of, 115 



CONTENTS. 



Ill 



Precaution, Notice of, 117 

Practical Lessons in Flower Painting, Notice of, 174 
Portrait of a Lady, To a, a Poem, .... 199 
Preliminary E.xercises, Gymnastic, - ■ 222 



PAGE. 

Parallel Bars = ..,.. 222 

Poems of Ossian, Notice of, 228 

Predestination, 309 

Princeps Tibieen. A Resuscitated Joe, . .318 



POETRY 



Hope, : . 12 

The Homeward Bound, 18 

The Tiber, 20 

The Curse of the Flowers 22 

Earth and Ocean, . , - 26 

Elle me Voit, 34 

For whom is the Meed of Thy Love? ... 36 
They call me Cold and Passionless, ... 42 
To lanthe in Heaven, ........ 49 

Spirits of the Dead, ........ 51 

The Songs we used to Love, 65 

Fairyland, 70 

To , 75 

The Past and the Future, 77 

Love and Gold, 83 

The Ocean, ........... 84 

The Friends of our Childhood, ..... 91 

To the River , ......... 99 

A Resuscitated Joe, ........ 100 

Lays of the Early Martyrs, ...... 129 

Church's Lament for St. John, ..... 129 

Martyr to his Apostate Judge, ..... 129 

The Dying Wife, .137 

Silence — a Sonnet, ........ 144 

The Haunted Palace 148 

The Summer Moon, ........ 155 

Q. 

Quiver, The, 110 

Qualifications of a Good Player, at Cricket, . 278 

R. 

Romance of American History, ..... 43 
Reflections in a Country Grave Yard, ... 50 



Things I Love, . 160 

The White Mountain Legend, . . . , . 178 

The Fair Shaker, 181 

Stanzas, 187 

Song of the Arab 188 

Withered Flowers, 192 

The Exile's Return, 196 

To a Portrait of a Lady 199 

Land Ho ! 220 

The Bird of the West, ....... 235 

Life and Death, 242 

The Ouphe's Love, 250 

Hypochondriac Rhymings, 2S9 

Sonnets, 263 

First Love, ........... 263 

Consolation, 266 

The Letter over the Sea, . 271 

Bereavement, ........... 276 

Cain, ..... ........ 296 

Disappointment, . 303 

Yes ! tell me of my Mother, ..... .314 

Decem'oer, ............ 317 

Princeps Tibieen 318 

Fire-side Sonnet, 318 

The Old Love, . 323 

1 To a Portrait of a Beautiful Young Girl, . . 326 

I Random Recollections of a Home Traveller, 97,189 
River , To the, a Poem, ..... 99 

1 Resuscitated Joe, A, ........ 100 

Richard P. Smith, Biography of, .... 119 

Rummage in My Old Bureau, ..... 156 

Reply to the Critics, Notice of, .... . 164 

Richard Doddicombe, Mister, ...... 175 

Running, 223 

I Running down the Trades, ..,,,. 226 



REVIEW OF NEW BOOKS 



The History of the Navy of the U. S., . • 56 
Lecture on the Study of History, .... 58 
Francia's Reign of Terror. By J. &amp; W.Robinson 59 
Isabel. By H. T. Tuckerraan, ..... 60 
Memoirs of Celebrated Women. By James, 60 

Advice to a Young Gentleman, 61 

A Synopsis of Natural History. By T. Wyatt, 61 
Sketches of Public Characters, &amp;c. ... 62 

Concealment, 112 

Phantasmion, ........... 112 

The Barber of Paris. By Paul De Kock, . 113 
The Jubilee of the Constitution, .... 114 

The Gentleman of the Old School. By James, 114 
Sketches of London. By Grant, . . . .115 

Popular Lectures on Geology, 115 

The Pocket Lacon. By John Taylor, . . . 115 
The Triumphs of Science. By W. Wallace, .116 
Tortesa, the Usurer. By N. P. Willis. • . .117 
Precaution. By Cooper, . ■ • • • .117 

Six Weeks in Fauquier, . . . . . ■ .118 

The White Sulphur Papers, ...... 118 

A Defence of Female Education, .... 118 



Waverly Novels, ......... 164 

Fanny and other Poems, ....... 164 

A Reply to the Critics, ....... 164 

A Voice to Youth, , . 165 

Historical Sketches. By Lord Brougham, . 166 
Letters of Eliza Wilkinson, . , . . . .167 
Birds and Flowers. By Mary Howitt, . .167 
Tales of Shipwrecks. By Thomas Bingley, . 167 
The AEfteriean Flower Garden Companion, . 168 
The American Fruit Garden Companion, . . 168 

The Bride of Fort Edward, 168 

Charles Hartland, . 169 

Solomon Seesaw 169 

Undine 170 

Algic Researches, 173 

The Thugs of India 174 

Continuation of the Diary of the Times of 

George IV 174 

Practical Lessons in Flower Painting, . . . 174 
Hyperion. By Professor Longfellow, . . . 227 
Travels in North America. By C. A. Murray, 227 
The Poems of Ossian, ........ 228 



IV 



CONT R N T S . 



PAGE. 

The Gift, for 1840 228 

A System of Modern Geography, .... 229 
Flora's Lexicon. By C. H. Waterman, . . . 229 

Opinions of Lord Brougham, 230 

Fair Rosamond. By Thomas Miller, . . . 230 
The Man about Town. By C. Webbe, . . 230 
Hamilton King. By the Old Sailor, . . . .230 
Shak.speare and his Friends, ...... 282 

The Canons of Good Breeding 282 

The Damsel of Darien By Simms, .... 283 
Father Butler and the Lough Dearg Pilgrim, 285 

J^an Darrell, 286 

T-He Violet, for 1840 . . . 28G 



S. 



Stage, The Elizabethan, 11 

Sketches from the Log of Old Ironsides, 13, 101 
138,179,272, 300 

Spirits of the Dead, a Poem 51 

SoDgs we used to Love, a Poem, .... 65 

Sketch from Life, A, 76 

Settler in Arkansas, Letter from 85 

Salt Lake of Inderskoi, 92 

Sweepings from a Drawer 96,236 

Siring, The, 107 

Stringing the Bow 107 

Sis Weeks in Fauquier, Notice of, . . - .118 

Smith, R. P., Biography of, 119 

Silence, a Sonnet, 144 

Summer Moon, The, a Poem, 1.55 

Shaker, The Fair, a Poem 181 

Sianza 187 

Songof the Arab 188 

System of Modern Geography, Notice of, . . 229 
Sketch from History 260 



PAGE. 

The Literary Souvenir, for 1840, .... 286 
Tlie Museum of Religious Knowledge, . . 397 
The Chrisiian Keepsake, for 1840, . . . .327 

The Poet, 328 

Albert de Rosann 328 

Memoirs of his own Time. By Dumas, . . 329 

Blackstone's Commentaries, 329 

Life and Adventures of Nicholas Nickleby, . 330 
An Address by Joseph R. Chandkr, . . .330 

The Poets of America 33i 

Nix's Mate, 332 

National Melodies of America, 333 

Wanderings in the World of Literature, . , 334 

Sonnets, 263 

Scorers, at Cricket, 279 

Strikers, at Cricket, ........ 279 

Shakspeare and his Friends, Notice of, . . 282 



Tiber, The, a Poem 20 

They call me Cold and Passionless, a Poem, . 42 

To lanthe in Heaven, a Poem 49 

To , a Poem, 75 

To the River , a Poem 99 

Target, The Ill 

Taking Aim, Ill 

Trmmphsof Science, a Poem, Notice of, . . 116 

Things [ Love, a Poem 160 

To a Portrait of a Lady, a Poem, .... 199 

To M. C, a S.mnet, .' 263 

To the same, a Sonnei, 263 

Taking Two 274 

The Lump of Gold, 305 



TALES AND ROMANCES 



The Encounter 19 

The Arrest 21 

The White Cross, a Brazilian Story, ... 23 

The Waste Lands, , 27 

The Privateer. A Tale of the laie American 

War 37,71,122,193,237,280 

Pontiac, the Ottawa. An Indian Tale, . . 43 

The Man that was used up, , 66 

The Miami Valley 86, 315 

The Infernal Box, 130,182 

The Fall of the House of Usher 145 

A Rummage in my old Bureau, 156 



U. 



¥sed up. The Man that was 66 

Usher, Fall of the House of 145 

Undine, Notice of. 170 

"Umpires, at Cricket 279, 281 



Yoice to Youth, Notice of, 165 

Violet, The, Notice of, 286 



W. 



White Cross, The 23 



Mister Richard Doddicombe 175 

Love and Wealth 200 

William Wilson, 205 

The French Jew, 213 

The Magic Fiddle. A Forecastle Yarn, . . 243 

The Fair Maid of Falaise, 260 

Morella 264 

The Lump of Gold 304 

Predestination. A Moral Record, .... 309 
The Scotchman and the Twa Sarks, . . . 319 
The Conversation of Eiros and Charmion, . . 321 



Waste Lands, The 27 

White Sulphur Papers, Notice of, ... . 118 

Waverly Novels, Notice of, 164 

White Mountain Legend, The, a Poem, . . 178 

Withered Flowers, a Poem, 192 

Westminster Abbey, A Frenchman's Reflec- 
tions in, 197 

William Wilson 205 

Washington, The Capitol at, 231 

West, 1 he Bird of the, a Poem 235 

Wicket ICeeper, at Cricket . 280 



Y. 



Yes! tell me of my Mother, a Poem, 



314 



BURTON'S 



GENTLEMAN'S MAGAZINE, 



AND 



AMERICAN MONTHLY REVIEW. 



JULY, 18 3 9. 



THE ELIZABETHAN STAGE 



•WITH AK BH"G HAVING OK STIEX, BESIEKED BTBDSS, KEPHBSBSTIira 



THE PERFORMANCE 



Of Shalispeare'' s Comedy of Love's Lahor's Lost before Qmai Elizabeth. 



The subject of the accompanying plate is a fancy sketch by a celebrated English artist, named 
Buss, representing the performance of Shakspeare's comedy of Love's Labor's Lost, before queen 
Elizabeth and her Court. We believe, from the London papers, that the painter intended to repre- 
sent Shakspeare upon the stage before his august patron, in the performance of Don Adriano de Ar- 
mado, a fantastical Spaniard, a character in the above comedy. But we have no authority that the 
dramatist ever performed in the play in question, although we do not possess the power of contra- 
dicting the assertion. The nation and nature of the character, and the quaint allusion contained in 
its name, were undoubtedly designed as a grateful compliment to her virgin majesty. Shakspeare 
was indubitably a courtier, and spared no means of gratifying the weaknesses of Elizabeth and the 
prejudices of the day. The vilifying twisting of the character of Richard IIL, the mortal enemy of 
the giandfather of the queen, is a convincing evidence in support of our assertion. 

The play of Love's Labor's Lost (so named in the folio of 1623,) is generally supposed to be the 
earliest of Shakspeare's productions. Malone assigns 1591 as the date of the original drama, but 
changed it afterwards, with sufficient reason, to 1594. Chalmers supposes 1592 as the year wherein 
this comedy was written, but gives no satisfactory cause for his preference. The original edition of 
this play is doubtless lost, for the oldest copy extant, dated 1598, is said, in the title page, to be 
" newly corrected and augmented." In 1597, it was represented at Wliitehall palace, before queen 
Elizabeth, by her express desire — we are then to suppose that we possess the copy of the piece as it 
■was " newly corrected and augmented" for the purpose of exhibition before her majesty. 

We have said that there is no autho.ity extant for the assu nption that Shakspeare personated 
Armado, even at the command of her majesty the quean. At the same time, if he played in ^® 



12 



BURTONS GENTLEMAN S MAGAZIN: 



piece, he was likely to select tlie character of the thrasonical Spaniard, inasmuch as the broad hu- 
mors of the other masquers rendered them unavailable to an actor of our poet's calibre, and the parts 
of the dashing and witty courtiers were above his pitch. 

In Ben Jonson's Every Man in his Humor, his name appears attached to Old Knowell; Adam, 
in his own As You Like It, was another of his assumptions. In Seganus, his name appears 
amongst the comedians — although we know that his ghost in Hamlet was one of his best perform- 
ances, and that he occasionally figured in vaiious of his kingly characters, such as the Fourth, Sixth, 
and Eighth Henrys in his own historical plays. 

The last mention of Shakspeare's name as an actor appears in the list of characters attached to 
Ben Jonson's play of Seganus, published in 1603. 

Queen Elizabeth frequently indulged in witnessing dramatic performances, produced at her own 
expense, within her own palace walls. The Cotton MSS. contain various charges made in the ac- 
counts of the Master of the Revels for velvets, silks, cloths of gold, etc., for setting forth the stage 
In the very first year of her reign, there is a notice of the players being stopped in their perform- 
ances in consequence of the objectionable matter which they represented. " The same day at nyghS 
(Christmas) at the quens court, ther was a play afor her grace, the whych the plaers plad shuche 
matter that they wher commandyd to leyff off, and continently the maske cam in dansyng." Ne- 
vertheless, we find on the same authority, that on the twelfth night following, " a skaffold" for the 
play was set up in the hall, and " after play was done ther was a goodly maske, and after, a giett 
bankett that last tyll midnyght," 

The " skaflTold in the hall" sounds rudely to a modern ear, as the chief appliance and means of 
dramatic display in the palatial abode of the queen of England. But the public stage was in its in- 
fancy at the time of Shakspeare's birth, and the conveniences and elegant fittings wherewith the 
drama of the present day is graced, were unknown to the most ardent well-wisher of the stage in 
the early days of Elizabeth's reign. Chalmers observes " that what Augustus said of Rome may be 
remarked of Elizabeth and the stage ; he found it brick and he left it marble." At her accession in 
1558, no regular theatre had been established, and the players of that period, even in the capital, 
were compelled to have recourse to the yards of great inns, as the most commodious places which 
they could obtain for the representation of their pieces. These being surrounded by open stages and 
galleries, and possessing hkewise numerous private apartments and recesses, from which the gen- 
teeler part of the audience might become spectators at their ease, while the central space held a tem~ 
porary stage, uncovered m fine weather, and protected by an awning in bad, were not ill calculated 
for the purposes of scenic exhibition, and most undoubtedly gave rise to the form and construction 
adopted in the erection of the licensed theatres. 

In consequence of Elizabeth's patronage, the drama rapidly assumed an important stand. A re- 
gular play-house was built in the Blackfriars in 1570, and in 1574, Burbage's regular company of 
players was established by royal license. Before the sixteenth century expired, fouiteen distinct 
companies of players exhilirated the golden days of good queen Bess, Shakspeare's name appearing 
on the list enrolled by lord Warwick and the lord Chamberlain. Theatres, of course, proportionately 
increased ; and during the time that Shakspeare immortalized the stage, not less than seven of these 
structures, of established popularity, were in existence, with various others of ephemeral notoriety. 

B. 



HOPE. 



Bright harbinger of bliss, whence dost thou 

come] 
Are the green gem'd caves of the deep thy home? 
Dost thou list to the roar old ocean rings 
When the storm is out on its mad'ning wings ? 

Is thy birth place where the flow'rets raise 
Their glowing cups to the svm's warm blaze 1 
Or hath the glittering dew-drop been 
Around ihy home with ils diamond sheen T 

Or the Bunny cloud, as it floats away 
111 dreamy beauty, may it bid thee slay. 



And make thy home in its shadowy hall. 
When its banner is out on the blue sky's wall? 

My home, my home — oh ! it may not be 
In the coral caves of the deep, dr rk sea ; 
Or where the flowers, in their robes of light. 
Are gleaming on the enraptured sight. 

Nor the floating cloud, nor the dew diop's iay,1 
Though their loveliness well might bid me stay; 
But my home both beauty and darkness share — ■ 
In the heart of man, 'tis there, it is there. 
Virgiuia, May !'&gt;, 1239. XARIFA. 



SKETCHES FROM 



THE LOG OF OLD IRONSIDES 



BI THE AUTHOR OF " OU) lEOSSIDES OPF A IXS SHORE. ' 



Your gloiious standard launch againj 
To meet another foe ! — Camp. 



INTRODUCTION. 

The frigate Constitution has a deathless fame. There is a charm in her simple name that arrests 
the eye, and rivets the attention of the cursory readei. Old Ironsides! Why the hare mention of 
this sobriquet carries us back to the days of Nicholson and Talbot, to the actions with the Guerriere, 
the Java, and the Cyane and the Levant; and we fancy that we hear the roar of her cannon, the 
blast of her bugle, her cry of enthusiasm as she went into battle, and her loud huzza as she came 
out victoriously ; — before us, a Hull, a Bainbridge, and a Stewart appear, together with a host of 
other choice spirits, both officers and men, who trod her blood-stained decks, and shared her impe- 
rishable glory. Her picture is in almost every dwelling ; she marks the covers of toy books and 
paper reams, and hangs over the door of the seaman's rendezvous. The backwoodsman, in his log 
cabin amid the western forest, has counted her guns, and puzzled over her ropes. Every nation un- 
der heaven has seen her; and her deeds have been the talk of the civilized world. Tiuly, she is 
the lucky ship of our navy ! the pride of every patriot, and the boast of every American citizen ; 
and, sooner than surrender her to an enemy, every son of this vast republic should feel willing to 
go down with her to the blue depths of ocean with her drums beating and colors flying, and hear 
with pleasure the thunder of the scowling wave as it closes over her " pennon, spar, and sail." 

It is usual when men of mighty genius, of gallant bearing, of holy zeal, and of noble ancestry, ap- 
pear on this mundane sphere, for some contemporary to give a minute account of their lives and ac- 
tions ; and so far is the custom carried at the present day, that the curtain of domestic life is clewed up, 
and we are shown the mysteries behind the scenes. Will it be considered strange, then, if one shall 
■write a series of sketches of the deeds of the gallant Constitution 1 Surely, if each Httle great man 
has his Boswell, Old Ironsides shall have her trumpeter ! 

In the following pages, fact will be blended with fancy in such a manner as not to murder truth, 
and the author will endeavor to twine for himself a wreath from the inexhaustible laurel that now 
blooms from the stump of her keel, and hangs around her frame. Startling incidents from each 
cruize will be taken from authentic sources, and what has been omitted by the pen of history, will 
be added hy that of memory. In many instances, the details of others will be copied, taking care 
never to do so, without making proper acknowledgment in the notes at the bottom of the page. 
Having trod the deck of this noble frigate, and heard the piping of the gale through her rigging, and 
the thunder of her cannon above the shifting valleys of ocean, the author feels confident that he shali 
he able to serve up the dear old ship like a skilful cook, in a hundred different ways, and unfold 
many a deed of high and noble daring. 



EARLY HISTORY. 

Tlie frigate Constitution was laid down at Boston, Mass., under an act of Congress, approved 
March 27lh, 1794. She was modelled by Joshua Humphreys, Esq., of Philndelphia, — the father of 
the present talented Chief Naval Constructor, — who likewise modelled the frigates President, Uni- 
ted States, Chesapeake, Constellation, and Congress. She was rated a forty-four gun ship, but like 
all other rated ships, both English and American, she carried more guns than were named. She 
had thirty port-holes on the gun deck, and twenty-four on the spar deck, and her number of service* 
able cannon was fifty-four. She carries that number now. 



14 burton's gentleman's magazine. 

On the 30th of September, 1797, she ghded into her natural element amid the shouts of thousands 
of spectators, who had collected to witness the novel sight, and had she not stuck on the ways at an 
earlier period, she would have been the first vessel launched under the new organization of the navy. 
As it was, she was baptized with blood — a ship carpenter, by the name of Champney, having been 
killed by the falling of one of her shoars. 

On the 20th July, 1798, she got underway for the first time, under the command of Captain Sa- 
muel Nicholson, a gallant officer ; and in August cruized with four revenue cutters along the coast 
of the United States, to the southward of Cape Heniy. At the close of the year '98, while under 
the command of Captain Nicholson, she was attached to the West India squadron, commanded by 
Commodore Barry. In 1799, she became the flag ship of Commodore Talbot, on the St, Domingo 
station, and here she commenced her gallant career. 

Having thus brought the old ship down to the commencement of the present century, we leave 
the reader to learn her farther history from the following sketches and anecdotes. 



CUTTING OUT A LETTER OF MARQUE. 

Of all services of danger which a naval officer has to perform during a time of war, and there are 
^uany, the task of cutting out an armed vessel from under the guns of an enemy's foit, and bringing 
-her out of the harbor in safety, is considered the most desperate. Coolness and courage must travel 
hand in hand there; and the successful commander of such an expedition, under the most favorable 
circumstances, must consider himself well off if he earns his laurels at the cost of blood. 

The sun was slowly descending behind the blue peaks of San Domingo, when an American -fri- 
gate came in sight of the village of Port Platte, situated at the head of a small liaibor on tire south 
■side of the island, and, furling her courses, hove to, for tlie pui-pose of reconnoitering. After scan- 
iiing narrowly the little anchorage, the frigate put about, and, setting her courses, was soon lost amid 
the shades of night. The inhabitants of the village had felt great alarm at the near approach of the 
armed ship, and had reinforced their fort, beside sending a number of soldiers on board of the letter 
of marque, Sandwich, formerly a British packet, but now in the service of the French, which lay 
close under the guns of the fort, wheie she was receiving a cargo of coffee, previous to her making 
a run for France. 

It was in the year 1800, just after the action between the Constellation and La Vengeance, and 
Uic name of the conqueror, Truxton, passed from lip to lip with instinctive consternation. Night 
came on; the moon had not appeared, and scudding clouds obscured the stars. The reveilM had 
been beaten at the garrison, and the inhabitants of Port Platte had retired to dream of the daring 
cruizers of the American squadron. The frigate, when she had lost sight of the island, came about, 
and under easy sail stood in for the shore. She was the Constitution, Commodore Talbot, and from 
the silence that reigned throughout the ship, and the total absence of light from the battle lanterns, 
the most careless observer would have supposed that she was about to do sometliing for the glory of 
the old thirteen. 

As she drew nigh the port, two officers might have been seen at the gangway, watching narrowly 
the lights that twinkled ahead. At this moment, the heavy roar of a cannon came echoing along 
the waters, and then one after another, the lights disappeared, until none were seen but those which 
seemed to be designed to burn throughout the night. 

" Now is your time," said the elder of the persons to the younger ; "have the second cutter man- 
ned, sir, and come to me for farther orders." Thus saying, the commodore, for it was he, looked at the 
compass and entered the cabin. In a few minutes, a knock at the cabin door, announced the arrival 
of some officer to make a report. 

" Enter," said the bluff old commodore, and immediately lieutenant Hull, the first of the Consti- 
tution, stood before him. 

" Are you ready 1'' said the commodore. 
" All ready, sir," replied the lieutenant. 

" Then, sir," said the commodore, " you will enter the harbor of Port Platte without being dia- 
covered, ascertain whether the ciaft that lies under the guns of the fort is the Sandwich, and when 
you shall have done so, return and make a report to me." 

" How shall I ascertain that fact without boarding her 1" said the lieutenant. 
" You will know her to be the Sandwich," replied the commodore, " by the black stripes around 
her white masts, and by the shortness of her bowsprit. Make haste, sir, for I long to give you a 
job." 

The lieutenant smiled as he bade the commodore good night, and, immediately ascending, gave 
such orders to the officer of the deck as he deemed necessary under the citcumstances of the case. 
The night was pretty well advanced as Mr. Hull wrapped himself in his boat cloak, and seated him- 
self in the stern sheets of the second cutter. 

" Shove off— let fall — pull cheerily, my boys," were the orders he gave, in a low voice, in quick 



OLD IRONSIDES. 15 

SQCCession ; then passing swiftly around the frigate's stern, he pulled for the harbor, and was soon 
lost sight of. 

For two hours, nothing was heard of the adventurous ofircer or his boat, and the old commodore 
began to grow quite anxious about them. Already a pale streak stretched itself along the eastern 
waters, and the clouds giew thinner and fewer, while here and there a star peeped out, and was re- 
flected back by the waves below. 

" Boat ahoy '." challenged the sentinel at the gangway of the Constitution, as the dash of oars at 
this moment fell upon his ear. 

"Aye! aye !" replied the officer of the boat, and soon lieutenant Hull crossed the gangway of the 
^ip. 

" It is the Sandwich, sir," said the lieutenant, after reporting his return, and paying the custom- 
ary salute. 

" Are you certain!" said commodore Talbot. 

" I am, sir," replied the officer, " for I lay directly under hex stern, and heard through the cabin 
•windows, which were open, her officers congratulating themselves upon the departure of the Con- 
stellation, for such they deem this ship to be. Beside, I noticed her masts and bowsprit, as I swept 
along under the guns of the fort — they are as you described them to be." 

" I'll have her, by ," said commodore Talbot, as he looked again at the harbor, which began 

to show itself amid the haze of dawn. " About ship, sir — set all the studding sails," and, bidding 
the heutenant good night, the commander in chief bounced into his cabin. 

The frigate swiftly came about, and took her departure from the land. Soon the studding sails 
on both sides were spread out to the wind, and, like a mountain of snow, she danced along upon 
the bosom of the deep until her morning watch looked out in vain for the blue outline of the island 
of San Domingo. 

" Sail O !" cried the look-out. 

" Where away ?" said the officer of the deck. 

" On the lee bow, sir," replied the seaman. 

" Can you make her out 1" hailed the officer. 

«' She is a sloop, sir, and shows American colors." 

" Hoist our ensign," said the lieutenant. 

" Aye, there comes the Sally in the nick of time." said the commodore, who had left the cabin at 
the first hail. " Mr. Hull, make a signal for hei to run down and speak us ; we will soon proceed 
to business." 

In a short time, the sail, which proved to be the American sloop Sally, came alongside of the Con- 
stitution. After a conference with her captain, he and his crew came on board the frigate, while 
lieutenant Hull, with a party of seamen and marines, the latter led by the brave captain Carmick 
immediately repaired on board of the sloop. Having received orders from the commodore, the sloop 
now put her helm up, and ran for the island. 

" In the course of the night, while running down for her port under easy sail, a shot suddenly 
flew over the Sally, and soon after an English frigate ranged up alongside. Mr. Hull hove to and 
when the boarding lieutenant gained the sloop's deck, where he found so large a party of men and 
officers in naval unifoims, he was much surprised. He was told the object of the expedition how- 
ever, and expressed his disappointment, as his own ship was only waiting to let the Sandwich com- 
plete her cargo, in order to cut her out also."* 

It was about^noon of the following day when the sloop stood in to the harbor of Port Platte. Be- 
fore her lay the Sandwich, with her broadside bearing on the approach ; and in the rear of her at 
no great distance, a battery shov/ed its long row of black teeth for her protection. 

Lieutenant Hull had sent nearly all the men below, before he entered the harbor, and now, having 
a stern anchor ready, he bore down, like a short-handed lubberly sloop, for the bows of the Sand- 
wich. As he drew nigh the ship, he said, in a low voice, " Stand by to board," and soon a large 
number of men crouched under the bulwarks, ready for action. 

" You will be afoul of me," said the lieutenant of the Sandwich, who was leaning carelessly over 
the bulwark as the sloop came down. 

" I think I shall," was the laconic reply. In a moment, the sloop struck the bows of the enemy. 

" Let go the kedge '." thundered the lieutenant — it was done like magic. 

" Boarders, away !" cried he ; and, seizing his cutlass, he crossed the gangway of the Sandwich 
at the head of his men, and carried her without a struggle. 

Captain Carmick, in the ship's boats, now landed, carried the battery, spiked the guns, and retired 
without the loss of a man. 

A great commotion was nov/ perceptible on shore ; but the commander and his crew went swiftly 
to work to secure their prize, and, though she was dismantled above her deck, and her guns stowed 
in the hold, before sunset she had her royal yards crossed, her guns scaled, and her crew quartered. 

* Cooper's Naval History. 

VOL. v. KO. I. A 



l-O BURTON S GENTLEMAN S MAGAZINE. 

Siie now got under way, with the American flag at her ensign-peak, and stood out of the harbor in 
company with the sloop. 

Evening vras slowly fading into night as a ship, followed at some distance by a sloop, boie down 
for the Constitution. 

" Hail the stranger," said commodore Talbot. 

^' What ship is thati" thundered the officer of the deck, through his trumpet. 

" The United States ship Talbot, I. Hull, commander," replied the victorious officer, as he drew 
near enough to be distinguished by the othcers of the frigate. 

" It is Hull, by heavens !" said the commodore. In a few minutes lieutenant Hull came on board 
and made his official report. After a short time, the Sally's captain and crew were returned to their 
vessel, with many thanks, and lieutenant Hull, having received orders to that effect, repaired on 
board the prize as her commander, and, crowding on all sail, followed the commodore to Jamaica. 



APEEPATMOKOCCO. 

In 1803, we find our favorite ship, bearing the broad pendant of commodore Preble, entering the 
Mediterranean, to battle with the powers of Barbary. Octol)er 6th, 1803, the frigate Philadelphia, 
captain Bainbridge, captured off Cape de Gatta a cruizer belonging to the emperor of Morocco, call- 
ed the Meshboha, of twenty-two guns, Ibrahim Lubarez, commander, with a crew of one hundred 
aaid twenty men. This vessel having piratically seized the brig Celia, of Boston, commodore Pre- 
Me, in the Constitution, accompanied by the Nautilus, and the return squadron of commodore Kod- 
gers, sailed for Tangier Bay, for the purpose of convincing the brother of the sun and moon that a 
war with the United States would inevitably result in the destruction of his piratical navy, 

Tangier is situated on the northern coast of Africa, but a short distance from Cape Spartel. It 
£S a walled city of Morocco, and is rarely if ever visited excepting by market boats and vessels of 
war, on account of the long quarantine which is imposed by ports higher up the Mediterranean, 
upon all vessels who may have touched there. It lies thirty miles west of Gibraltar, is strongly foi- 
tified, has fourteen thousand inhabitants, and is the principal sea-port of the Moors. 

Its appearance from the sea is beautiful. Castles and forts of white stone, with the blood red flag 
•floating over each baslioh ; numerous white buildings, with the flags of every commercial nation 
waving in the breeze above them. Groves of orange and cypress trees towering above the walls, 
Hiark the foreground ; while far in the blue distance, the mountains of Mauritania towering in gran- 
deur, and to the left, and nigh at hand, the wild and broken summits of Mount Abyla — or in com- 
3cnon parlance, Apes Hill — rising high above the straits, complete a picture which, for variety and 
beauty, is rarely equalled in the Mediteiranean. If you turn to the opposite shore, you behold, peep- 
ing out from its beautiful olive groves, the little town of Tarifa, in Andalusia, celebrated as the spot 
where the Moors first landed, undei Taric el Tuerto, and commenced the conquest of Spain ; and far- 
ther out from the main land, you see its light-house, pointing the wandering mariner to the passage be- 
tween the pillars of Hercules; and, farther up the straits, behold "Dark Calpe's frowning steep," 
rising like a watchful lion to guard the sunny sea. 

In an inexhaustible' stone quaiTy near the city, which has been worked from time immemorial, to 
supply the Moors with mill stones, there stood a pillar, with an inscription upon its base, which in- 
formed the reader that it was raised by the wandering Canaanites, who had been driven out of their 
land, " flowing with milk and honey," by Joshua, the son of Nun ; and from the solid blocks of 
stone that lie about the entrance, and the great extent of the excavation — which reaches out to the 
sea — it requires but a little stretch of the human mind to believe that the children of Anak once 
labored there. 

It was sunrise at the straits of Gibraltar, when an American squadron stood by Tarifa point, and 
liove to in the bay of Tangier. The shores were sleeping in misty splendor, as the commodore furl- 
ed his topsails and made a signal for the squadron to anchor. Having secured the ships, a salute of 
twenty-one guns was fired, with the flag of Morocco floating at the fore, which was speedily answer- 
ed by the battery on shore. Freedom and slavery now lay side by side ; the stars and the stripes, 
and the bloody ensigns of the corsairs, waved together in the breeze, while the rattling of the Con- 
sxitution's drums mingled with the clashing of the Mussulman's cymbals. It was a stirring hour — 
the emperor's household had heard the roar of artillery, and wonder sate upon every countenance. 

It was yet early in the morning when the most sublime and mighty prince of Mauritania, aroused 
from his quiet sleep in his drowsy harem by the report of the Constitution's cannon, repaired to the 
divan, and held high court. There was a scowl upon his brow as he twisted his magnificent mus- 
tachios, and his thin lip curled in scorn, while his dark eye flashed with unusual brilliancy. Be- 
fore him, were the abject subjects of his will, and myriads of heads bent down in homage as he 
seated himself, while his body guards, in jewelled robes and spotted turbans, with pomp and pride, 
took their stations behind his ottoman. At length, beckoning to the bey, he said — " What dogs are 



OLD IRONSIDES. IT 

these which disturb our ro3aI sleep before the hour of morning prayer 1 Hasten, Hassan, and bring 
us information." 

The bey informed him that a large squadron of American vessels of war had anchored in the 
harbor. 

" Mishalla !" said the emperor, with a look of apprehension, " let them be attended to." 

A white flag now streamed from the nearest bastion, which was answered by a similar display 
from every ship in the squadron ; and then a boat shot from the side of the Constitution, with a 
noble-looking oflicer in her stern-sheets, whose uniform showed him to be a captain in the navy of 
the United States. He was commodore Preble. In a short half hour, the emperor gave the gallant 
commodore an audience, and Mr. Simpson, the American consul, was placed upon a footing with, 
the consuls of the most favored nations. The emperor, through his interpreter, expressed his regret 
that any difference had arisen between the two nations, disavowed having given any hostile orders, 
and declared that he would punish any of his governors who had. He then gave an order, under 
his seal, for the release of the American brig Hannah, her cargo and crew, detained at Mogadore ; 
and the commodore gave up the Meshboha, the vessel taken by captain Bainbridge, and the Mis- 
houda, the vessel taken by commodore Rodgers, at an earlier period of the war. Having smoked a 
pipe and drunk the coffee of the most illustrious Moor, the commander of the squadron was about 
to retire from the presence chamber, when the emperor suddenly clapped his hands. Hassan Bey 
stepped forwaid. " Bring me the pen of my father, and the treaty made between him and the new 
world," said he, " that I may sign my name, and afHx my seal to it." 

The pen and the parchment scroll were then brought in, and Hassan Bey, having unrolled the 
latter on his bended knees, the emperor, in the presence of his divan, made his mark and affixed his 
seal below the ratification of his father ; and it is just to state, that ever afterwards he observed its 
stipulations with the strictness of an honest Mussulman. Three years ago, this treaty, which was 
to continue fifty years from its date, expired, and a new one was entered into, which is now in force. 
It is not a httle singular that the frigate Constitution, at the request of the consul of Tangier, made 
her second appearance off that port in 1836, to hasten a treaty with the emperor of Morocco. Will 
she, fifty years hence, be ready to do the same thing ? God grant it. 

After the usual ceremonies of leave-taking, the divan broke up ; the commodore then repaired on 
board his ship, and fired a salute ; the consul hoisted his flag again over his consulate, and the squad- 
ron getting under way, the Constitution stood up the straits followed by the Nautilus, while com- 
modore Rodgers and the return squadron proceeded to the United Slates. 

There is nothing like loaded cannon for expediting the consummation of a 'treaty with the Moors, 
and the only tribute that will satisfy them for ever, must consist of thirty-two pourvJ shot. There 
is no mistaking the meaning of such presents, and when offered by a Preble, from the deck of the 
Constitution, they — as we shall see hereafter — protected the flag, and increased the glory of his na- 
tive land. 

At midnight, as the Constitution, under easy sail, was beating up for Gibraltar, " she suddenly 
found herself alongside a large ship. Some hailing passed, without either party giving an answer ; 
commodore Preble, who had taken the trumpet himself, now told the name and country of his ship,, 
and his own rank. He then demanded the name of the stranger, adding that he would fire a shot 
unless answered. 

" ' If you fire a shot, I'll return a broadside,' was the reply. 

" Preble sprang into his mizen rigging, applied the trumpet, and said — ' This is the United States 
ship Constitution, a forty-four, commodore Edward Preble; I am about to hail you for the last time ; 
if not answered, I shall fire into you. What ship is that V 

" ' This is his Britannic Majesty's ship Donnegal, a razee of sixty guns.' 

" Preble told the stranger he doubted his statement, and should lie by him until morning, in order 
to ascertain his real character. He was as good as his word, and in a short time, a boat came from 
the other vessel to explain. It was an English /rig-a^e, and the Constitution had got so suddenly 
and unexpectedly alongside of her, that the hesitation about answering, and the fictitious name, had 
proceeded from a desire to gain time, in order to clear the ship and to get to quarters. The spirit of 
commodore Preble on this occasion produced a very favorable impression in his own ship ; the young: 
men pithily remarking, that if he was wrong in his temper, he was right in his heart."* 

The next morning, the Constitution came to anchor off Gibraltar, and thus ended the war with-. 
Morocco. 

* Note to Cooper's Naval History. 



THE HOMEWARD BOUND 



'TwAs calm on the waters — and night had drawn on 

Her mantlet of sable, her bright starry crown, 

And deeper each moment the azure sky grew, 

The billow reared darker its bosom of blue, 

The mermaid was leaving her deep coral cave, 

To joy in the stillness that reigned o'er the wave ; \ 

Ere the last smile of day o'er ocean did fade, 

On topsail and mast-head and pennant it play'd. 

The vessel was gallantly cleaving the spray, 

With canvas wide spread on hei homeward bound way, 

And full many a heart beat madly that night, 

As Hope whispered the morrow would bring land in sight. 

The moon rode on high — and her fair streamlets fell 

Alike on the deck and old ocean's proud swell, 

Tinged each mast, spar, and cord with her silver pale, 

And with sjiots of dark shade deck'd each half furled sail. 

On the helmsman — it glanced — and on one it shone, 

That over the taffrail was leaning alone : 

His bright eye seemed fixed in the distance afar. 

Yet heeded not billow, nor moon-beam, nor star. 

For the smile on his lip, the glow on his cheek, 

The heave of his breast 'neath his folded arms, speak 

A spirit already that's nestled at home. 

Where liight eyes and warm smiles cheer the end of his roam. 

One hour fled on — God ! what changes were there I 
O'er ocean and sky hung the shroud of despair ; 
The billows seemed striving the heavens to scale. 
And dashed their white foam in the face of the gale ; 
While now and anon came the sea-maids' wild shrieks 
In such blood-freezing tones as no mortal tongue speaks; 
jVot a star -ray broke thro'. the storm's drifting rack 
To guide that lone ship on her tempest crost track, 
But the fitful flash gleamed from the low hanging cloud. 
And showed how the tall masts were broken or bow'd — 
And drowning yells, caught 'mid the water spirits' dirge. 
Told of wretches engulphed in the v/ reek-sweeping surge. 

Still night on the waters — on wings of the blast, 
O'er the face of the moon, were clouds driving fast, 
And thro' their rent masses ller radiant beams broke, 
Pure, bright as they did ere the storm demons woke. 
Yet where was the bark that on ocean then rode, 
A thing full of life — Hope's smiling abode 1 
The sea-mew scream'd shrill round a sad mastless wreck 
That was tost by each wave without guidance or check : — 
Where were her gallant crew? — that sea-bird's scream rung 
The knell of the lone wretch to life who yet clung — 
One last sigh he breathed to those weeping at home. 

Then o'er him in wreathes curled the billow's white foam ! G, 

Philadelphia April 2d. 



THE ENCOUNTER 



Tho tuneful morn arose with looks of li^ht — 

The ear UiatclrauU her music's call was chill : 
The eye that shone was Sealed in endless night • 

And cold and still 

Tlie pulses stood that 'neatlfcergaze were wont to thrill. 

N. C. Brooks. 



Evert village which has seen its third generation, and every public building -which has survived 
the peltings of a half century's storms, claim as a part of their natural possessions, a larger or smaller 
portion of legendary lore. It is the powerful principle of association which imparts its interest to the 
antique dwelling or dismantled tower ; and as we gaze upon them, the imagination pierces the mist 
of the past and enlivens the scene with beings of its own creation. We go back to years long since 
commingled with the ocean of eternity, and see the busy actors of life's drama, as they performed 
their parts in the particular acts assigned them; and although they have flitted off the stage, the the 
atre of their performance is still before us. It affords us pleasure even when we are thrown solely 
tipon our imagination for persons and incidents to complete the scene : but the effort is less when we 
are supported with the principal events by history or tradition. 

No public building, perhaps, of the same age, affords as much food to the lover of incident, as a 
college. Changing its occupants every year ; its inhabitants collected promiscuously from all ranks 
of society, and possessing every possible shade of character and temperament, — its history must ne- 
cessarily be diversified. If the walls of our older institutions had tongues, how many thrilling tales 
of high anticipations, youthful enthusiasm, powerful effort and blasted hopes, might they disclose ! 
I have often listened to the breeze as it sighed through the long halls of our building, and imagined 
that it bore to my ear the merry peals of laughter which have rung through its chambers, mingled 
with the low sighs of many a hardened heart which has told its sorrow to that heedless breeze. 

There is one tale of grief connected with our alma mater, which has floated among us as a con- 
stituent part of hei earlier history. About thirty years ago, among the many who were here engaged 
in the enthusiastic strife for literary acquirement, there were two young hearts whose warm currents 
have long since been frozen in death. The rising sun of their hopes was early shrouded in a dark 

cloud which cast a melancholy shadow over the history of their lives. T of Kentucky, was a 

young man of respectable parts, but bold, passionate, and supercilious. Although his talents might 
have gained him respect, his disposition created an aversion to him among his companions and fellow 
students. He had that haughtiness in his carriage which is always sure to render a member of a 
society, as united as that of a college, disagreeable and unpopular. In the assignment of chambers 
he obtained as his room-mate a young gentleman who differed as much from him in disposition as 

the zenith does from the nadir. C was a quiet gentle soul. He possessed those qualities which 

secured him the warmest aflections of all around him. Although in delicate health, and generally 
pensive and retiring, the natural kindness and warmth of his feelings which gushed up like a full 
spring, endeared him to every one who formed an intimacy with him. As they differed so much iu 
their disposition, it is not to be expected that their mutual company would be agreeable. For some 
time, however, the restraint which a slight acquaintance imposed, prevented an exhibition of impro- 
priety on the part of the former, or uneasiness in the latter, but as they became more familiar, the 

spirit of T showed itself in unkind treatment to his room-mate. The sensitive heart of C 

could not brook the continued injury and unjustifiable abuse which was heaped upon him day after 
day. The presence of his insulter rendered his room the most disagreeable place on earth to him, 
and when absent his mind brooded over the incurable wounds which had been inflicted upon him. 

We gave T warning that a continuance of his conduct would be visited with retribution; but 

still he persisted in the same treatment which he before observed. In an evil hour C sent him a 

note, demanding gentlemanly satisfaction. The challenge was accepted, and the necessary preli- 
minaries arranged. 

********** 

Day was just dawning, and the pencil of light which streamed across the eastern horizon, pro- 
claimed the rising morning. The stars had not yet ceased to be visible. The citizens of our quiet 
tovsm were yet wrapt in the arms of sleep. To a verdawt lane within sight of the college, two small 
groups of persons were seen to move. ' There was a solemnity in their deportment which indicated 



20 



BURTON S GENTLEMAN S MAGAZINE. 



that the occasion which called them out was not one of a lively nature. They moved with a firm,r. 
decisive step, as though neiving themselves to receive some sudden shock, or witness a painful catas- 
trophe. They stopped when they reached the lane, and a few minutes Vv^ere spent in conversation, — 
quick and hurried, — as though they feared that some superior force would suspend their operations. 

It was a duel scene. The ground wasmeasured ; the frail form of C and the tall person of T 

took their assigned station as the principal actors in the tragedy about to be enacted. Their weapons 
■were handed them, and each intent upon the horrid purpose of taking his brother's life, prepared to 
send his stained soul into the presence of a pure God. 

It was a moment of dread suspense. Hearts were beating then which might soon cease to pulsate 
forever. The shrine of many a holy affection and feeling, which if properly cultivated would have 
led them to honor and happiness, might soon be irreparably destroyed. The sun which should soon 
salute the earth with his blessed light, would look upon the happy homes of their childhood, where 
they had been caressed by the fondness of parents and friends, and where they were still remembered 
"with the kindest solicitude. Perhaps his first rays would greet an afleclionate mother in her chamber, 
mingling the most fervent petitions for her son's happiness with her morning orisons; and that son 
might be lost to her for ever. With quick succession, such thoughts passed through their fevered 
brain. A moment — a report — and the deed was done. C was wounded and fell. The re- 
mainder of the party, influenced by a dastardly cowardice wliich deserves to be branded, fled with 
precipitation. 

There lay the dying one, alone. The stream of his heart's blood was gurgling through the wound, 
and as he fell with his head down a declivity, it rushed through his throat, choking him with it&amp; 
warm current. It was vain to struggle with death. He had challenged the monster to the combat, 
and now felt his inabihty to meet him. And then to die in such a situation \- — with no kind friend 
to support the drooping head, and wipe the death-damp from the brow. Doubtless as he entered the 
dark avenue to the other world, fond memory presented the bright images of past joys, of kind sisters, 
of affectionate friends. In vain the earth put on her vernal robe, — he had looked upon her beauties. 
for the last time. It is painful to be ushered into the eternal world under any circumstances; but 
how terrible it is when we rashly tear aside the curtain which veils that future state of existence 
iirom us, and read upon the broad orb of eternity, our own condemnation. 

A melancholy fate is recorded of T . Warned by the spirit of his murdered companion, he 

left his native country, and sought to banish his painful feelings by visiting foreign lands. 

Ccelum non animum mutant, qui trans mare currunt. The image was still before him : it abode 
Twith him in private, followed him in public, and glared fearfully upon him in his midnight dreams. 
It preyed upon his mind until settled dejection took place, which finally terminated in decided in-» 
sanity. A wild maniac, he roamed over Italy. The balmy breath of her zephyrs brought no calm 
to his soul ; he regarded not the famous softness of her sky. He, who had been nursed upon the 
lap of luxury, depended on the cold charity of those to whom he was bound by no tie but that of 
common humanity; his haughty spirit was broken, and the pround superstructure of his mind was a 
desolate ruin. He laid him in that stranger land, where no kind friend could pen his epitaph. 

Dickinson College, D; 



THE TIBER 



A SONNET. 



Still do thy waters flow, on which looked down 
The Seven-hilled city, from its pride of place, 
"Which mirrored forth its glory and its grace : 
Oh ! thou whose dicta shook the world, whose frown 
Made mightiest monarchs tremble on their thrones 
And bend in homage to thy conquering sway. 
Art now a heap of monumental stones : 
There, human greatness, shrouded in decay. 



Owns the vain-glory of usurping pride, 
Whose bubbles rise and sink on time's swift tide ; 
Still rolls, unchanged, imperial Tiber on. 
Though the rich splendors of its shores are gone. 
Thus rivers flow, though their proud cities fall, 
For nature holds her sway, triumphantly o'er alL 

Zet. 



THE ARREST. 



TRANSLATED F R O 51 THE FRENCH, 



" The debtor cannot be arrested before the rising nor after the setting of the snn.''— Code ilcpro, civ. art. 78 J. 



If you have hitherto escaped the grasp of the sheriff's officers, if the cuffs of your sleeves have not 
yet been defiled by the bailiff's touch, you can form no conception of the bitterness of an arrest. It 
is one of those unspeakable sensations which you will not again experience, save in Tartarus; thatis^ 
if old Minos shall think fit to condemn you. A few days ago, I was still free in that anomalous liberty, 
which knoweth not the clear light of heaven, and defendeth itself from the sun. Ferreted out by the 
commercial blood-hound, I was forced early in the morning from my ensconcement in a garret, where 
I was sleeping, neither well nor ill, until such time as it would be day with me, and still night witli 
the rest of mankind. Last Friday, as the town clock was striking eight — 

" The owl is commencing its flight," said a young woman, (the confidante of my misfortiisse,) 
through the key-hole. 

" Thanks, blue-eyed angel, with black hair," I replied, in aromantic tone of voice ; " since the ianip 
of heaven is extinguished, the cat may go out upon the gutters." 

With these words, I put on a light surtout, and directed my uncertain steps toward the Palais Eoy- 
al. Arrived near the bank, I mechanically cast my eyes upon the playbills of the day. 

"Theatre de Madame — First representation of 'The Setting of the Sun.' Comedy vandeTiDe; 
M. Perlet will perform the character of Aigentieres." 

Capital ! My instinct as a debtor irresistibly hurried me to such a representation. I entered pre- 
cisely as the curtain rose, and took the first seat that offeied. 

Aigentieres was just like myself, a night-bird; invited to a soiree, it there chances that he forgets 
himself, amid punch and the card-tables. At the rising of the sun he dares not venture into the 
streets, for he has perceived from the window a visage of bad omen : 't is that of a sheriff-officer, 
planted at the door of the hotel like a gibbet, and awaiting his victim with fatal vigilance. It was 
necessary, then, that Argentieres should devise a thousand pretexts for remaining at his post till even- 
ing. 

"How shall I manage"!" exclaimed Perlet. 

His embarrassing position drew from me an exclamation and sympathetic applause. My right 
hand neighbor, a very troublesome fellow, applied his glass and eyed my countenance with an im- 
pertinence truly provoking. I silently contented myself with turning my back to him, and offering^ 
a more befitting view; but the fellow, whose gaze partook somewhat of the satanical, ceased notfrcirj 
his scrutiny of my person ; above all, at that moment when the v/inding-up of the piece extracted a 
new burst of sympathy. My patience was exhausted, and I gave him an intentional push, hy acci- 
dent. 

" My dear sir! your address," said he to me, while re-adjusting his glass, which had been deraugedl 
by my abrupt motion. 

" Ah! very well," added he, reading the name and number of my street; "you shall see me, sir, 
early to-morrow morning." 

" You will oblige me, sir, by coming very early." 

" I shall not fail, I assure you." 

And as we quitted each other his glass was still pursuing me. I slept ill ; I am no coward, hut a 
duel occasions restlessness even to the man most philosophically detached from life. At six o'clock 
came a knock at my door; it was the quizzing-glass fellow, accompanied by two gentleman of a sx^~ 
ficiently pleasant countenance. 

" Gentlemen, I am at your service." / 

" You shall not escape us, sir." 

" These two pistols will decide our difference." 

" Quite useless, sir, we have here every thing requisite for us." 

" Since you are armed, then, at all points, we can depart." 

" At all points," replied he with a sneer, " that is the phrase ; let us get into the coach^'" 



22 



burton's gentleman's magazine. 



"Where are we going 1" 

"Rue de la Cle, sir." 

"How, Ruede la Clel" 

" By virtue of the peremptory decree issued against you on the first day of June, by the tribunal 
of commerce, duly registered, and to you notified, a petition, etc. etc., I arrest you, in the king's name : 
that you may not remain ignorant, I beg leave to inform you, that I am an officer in the guard of 
commerce, and these gentlemen are my satellites." 

At these words I fell into a lethargic despondency, from which I was not roused until I heard the 
grating of the lock of Saint Pelagic, as it closed behind me. 

" Another time," said I, " catch me giving my address to the first wrangler that comes to hand, and 
thus compromising my existence as a free man, for the sake of making a show of empty bravery." 

The reflection is excellent, but comes, unhappily, a little too late, like all other reflections in which 
tlie prisoner indulges within the walls of Saint Pelagic. J. G. W. 



THE CURSE OF THE FLOWERS. 



At the coming of dawn, ere the sun 
Had his visible course begun. 
And song burst from every bill ; 
Whilst the earliest breezes were chill. 
And the dews on our hearts and our homes 
Lay sweet as our balm in bee-combs ; — 
In the sultry succeeding of noon, 
When in the pale azure the moon 
Lay faint as the faintest of clouds, 
And we swoon'd in our emerald shrouds ; — 
At the graceful survening of even. 
Ere twilight shed sleep upon heaven ; 
We were cheer'd thro' the beautiful hours 
By bands of our sweet sister-flowers : — 
But' scarce had the sun's loving eye 
Look'd its last from the golden sky. 
When a creature that seem'd of the skies, 
By the light of her eloquent eyes, 
By her cheeks, and her lips, and her tresses, 
And the bed where they lay in caresses. 
And the grace of her form and its motion, 
Came amidst us ; and seeming devotion 
To our beauty and fragrancy paid. 
And with love-looks our droop'd lids survey'd: 
But ruin pursued her regard ; 
And bloom after bloom from the sward, 
And bud after bud, did she sunder ;, 
And o'er her white bosom and under 
With passion fantastic array'd them, 
And for joy with death-dreariness paid them : 
That now, in the light of the stars, 
Our sorrow dew'd slumber debars ; 
And the spii it of life in our veins, 
Of bereavement eternal complains; 



I And when the new dawn shall arise 
I On the verge of the orient skies, 
'Twill but vex the shut grief in our eyes I 

For this murder of those that we cherish'd ; 
Whose life in her selfishness perish'd, 
May she love, and be answcr'd with scorn, 
And her heart with vain cravings be torn ! 
Which to glut, with mere limb may she mate, 
And then sicken with loathing and hate; 
Whilst the life which her blood must allume, 
Doth but gasp thro' one breath to the tomb, 
And she drag on from mori'ow to morrow, 
To lorn death thro' a desert of sorrow ! 

But, if by the love she will vow, 
Which deep in her young blood doth grow, 
And which springeth, and springeth, and springeth 
And grace all about her forihbringeth — 
Never more, with a merciless hand. 
To make spoil of our innocent band 
But leave us to live, love and die 
At God's will, in the breath of his sky; 
And the beam and the dew of our birth 
Still feel as we wither in earth — 
We revoke every spell of our curse ; 
And its tenor heart-blighting reverse ; 
May her fond love, by fond answer met, 
Never droop in the shade of regret ; 
May she kiss, and still kiss, and adore ; 
Till the dream which enchanteth be o'er ; 
May she bee-drain the sweets it can gi've. 

And die when 'tis sorrov/ to live ! 

* •yv * 



THE WHITE CK.OSS 



A BRAZILIAN S T K Y . 



BY LIEUT. C X E , U. S. A E, M T 



The coui-se of true love never did run smooth. 



Is all the bay and harbor of Rio de Janeiro, so often described by travellers as one of the most ca- 
pacious, and certainly the most beautiful in the world, no portion is so beautiful or possesses so 
much of the romantic and picturesque as Botafogo Bay, one of the many parts which unite to con- 
stitute the beauteDUS whole first mentioned. 

Brazil, justly styled the garden of the world, has no spot equally fair with tliis, and while wan- 
dering midst its verdant fields and in the depths of its forests, where 

" nor dint of hoof nor print of foot 
Lay in the wild luxurious soil ;" 

a traveller might well imagine he had at last reached the spot so long sought after, where our first 
father saw and wooed the fairest, first of women. Eve. 

To return, however, to the Bay of Rio, completely shut in on three sides by lofty hills and moun- 
tains covered with perpetual verdure, high among which the towering corcovado rears its head, like 
a blasted pine in a grove of beauty; groves of orange trees, filled with the "golden apple" scattered 
in every direction by the tasteful and profuse hand of nature, give a rich beauty and softness to the 
scene, while in bold relief are seen the massy Gavia and the well known sugar-loaf, nature's hand- 
marks, to guide the weary mariner to the " haven where he would be :" all that is wanting to com- 
plete the picture is the massy fort of Santa Oruz, "bristling horribly" with 

" those mortal engines, whose rude throats 
The immortal Jove's dread clamors counterfeit," 

and presenting an impassable barrier to the entrance of the harbor, at the mouth of which it is situa- 
ted. 

The shores of Botafogo Bay are lined with villas of surpassing beauty and neatness of architecture ; 
among which stands pre-eminent that of the late beautiful Countess of Santos, a monument at once 
of the fiailty of its fair occupant and the munificence of her imperial lover, Pedro the First. 

I have been thus particular in the description, or rather in this poor attempt at description, of this 
lovely spot, from its being the scene of the events I am about to narrate ; and as the facts upon which 
this " ower true tale" are founded, did actually occur. I might in compliance with the long observed 
rule of scribbling, premise, " that the actors in the drama, or some of them, being still alive, delicacy 
forbids me to disclose their names, etc." Such, I believe, is admitted to be a privilege of long stand- 
ing, and I might be disposed to avail myself of it, but for the simple reason, that I do not know the 
real names of any one mentioned in my story, although I once heard them ; nor do I know whether 
they are ahve or dead, but I think I hear my fair reader exclaim, (while more than half inclined to 
throw away this nonsense,) the story, sir, the story ; thus, then it is : 

In the year 18 — ; but before I proceed any farther, I ought to tell you how I became acquainted 
with the facts I relate, and begging the pardon of any one, whose patience has accompanied me thus 
far, for drawing a little more upon their stock thereof, I will, in as brief a way as possible, state the 
the how, when, and where. 

It was on an evening of surpassing loveliness, such as is no where seen but in the tropics, that 
after having spent a day of solitude in my hammock, trying by inactivity and passiveness to escape 
the heat, as the thermometer had been playfully ranging from 90° to 100° in the shade, with no 
society but my Byron, my own thoughts, (poor company, I think I see you preparing to remark, so 



24 burton's gentleman's magazine. 

that I will save you the trouble by confessing it myself,) and though last, by no means least, a choice 
"Havana," the which I can confidently recommend to every one, as the greatest of luxuries in a 
warm climate, where was I, oh ! I had just got out of my hammock, (another luxury,) and deter- 
lermined to enjoy to the utmost the coolness of the evening. I entered my canoe, and with my only 
attendant, (cook, valet, and chambermaid, " trio juncta in uno'' as Sheridan said,) paddled down the 
harbor from my cottage on the Island of Cobras, until we arrived at the mouth of Botafogo Bay, 
which we entered ; whilst paddhng round the bay and resigning myself to the control of spirit en- 
gendered by the fairy like appearance of the scene, I observed a white cross painted upon the rocks, 
which near the entrance of the bay, reach to the water's edge. 

Having never before noticed it, I was considerably astonished at the sight, as these crosses are 
usually the "memento mori's" of some murder that has been committed on the spot where they are 
erected, and I could not believe that the hand of the assassin would have invaded a sanctuary like 
this. 

On inquiry, I gained from my companion, a venerable Brazilian, the following particulars, which 
I give you rendered into English, and stripped of numerous digressions on his part, during the nar- 
ration, which would most certainly not interest you, any more than I fear mine have. 

In the year 18 — , the Martini palace which was located a short distance from Botafogo bay, in the 
direction of the city of Rio de Janeiro, was not more celebrated for its grandeur and magnificence, 
than for its owner, the Marquis Juan de Martini ; — cold, haughty, and reserved in his manners, he 
was liked by no one ; secluded almost altogether from the world, he appeared to feel no interest in 
any one around him, and but for one circumstance, the fact of his existence even would have been 
forgotten, so rarely did he appear in public. Like Jeptha, he had one fair daughter, and her he did 
indeed love passing well. 

Isabel de Martini had long been celebrated as the fairest of the fair, in the imperial city of St. 
Sebastian; her dark eye beaming with intelhgence, was surmounted by a brow of perfect symmetry, 
and her raven locks playing loosely about her sculptured neck, gave her an almost elf-like appearance. 
Beauty cannot be described, and any description would fall short of what Isabel really was; let every 
one draw from his imagination for her image, for she was lovely as imagination can conceive ; would 
that I could do so, but although a worshipper of the fair daughters of Eve, almost to idolatry, I never 
yet could transfer their charms to paper : sirffice it then to say, that among all the dark eyed beauties 
of this sunny land, who stand unrivalled both for form, and face, Isabel de Martini shone pie- 
eminent. Many were the admirers, and among them many of the proudest nobles of Brazil, who 
had sued for the honor of her hand, and all in vain ; to all she turned an inattentive ear, and if the 
truth must be told, the fair Isabel was just the least in the world of a coquette, and however much 
her vanity might be flattered by seeing her train of admirers swelling with the noble and the rich, 
she passed along unmoved by any, " fancy free." 

Pass over a year in the life of our heroine, and go with me to the shores of the bay I have de- 
scribed to you ; the moon was shining with its silvery light upon the still waters of the bay, which 
clearly as a mirror, reflected all around it, yet no object Was reflected half so fair as the forms of Isabel 
and a young man, who, with his arm around her, was gazing on his companion with an expression 
of the deepest afl'ection. Long they walked, and if we do not give you the subject of their conver- 
sation, it is for the two-fold reason, that being lovers, it was necessarily of a character uninteresting 
to a third person, and moreover, I did not hear a word of it; time flew, but still they strolled along 
the tranquil margin of ihe bay, and it was the lady who first observed the lateness of the hour, and 
spoke of returning. 

" Do not detain me longer," she said, " indeed, indeed, Fernando, I must leave you ; my absence 
will be remarked, and though for myself I care not, still your safety as much as my own, demands 
that we should be prudent ; indeed we must separate, but 'tis only till to-morrow." 

" Dearest Isabel," replied her lover, " how can I ever sufliciently repay you 1 you, the admired of 
all, the loveliest of your sex, thus to brave all for me — and must we part? would that the time were 
come, when we will fly together far from this hated place, and secure from all pursuit, live only for 
each other." 

" Once more, then," said Isabel, "good night; for my sake, be careful of yourself, and remember 
that my existence is dependant upon yours. God bless you, good night." 

The youth folded her in his arms, and hastily impressed a kiss upon her brow, which was of a 
marble paleness, and .then releasing her, the maiden disappeared among the rocks; he gazed after 
her for a few morirents, then casting off" the fastening of a canoe, which lay concealed in a small cove 
beneath, he sprang into it, and rapidly plying his paddle, in a very brief space he reached the op- 
posite shore, and disappeared. As the scene just described may appear a little strange to those whose 
patience has carried them thus far, it v;iil be proper to state the particulars of the acquaintance 
which had arisen between our heroine, and the evident object of her choice. 

At a public ball given by the Emperor, to which not only the nobility, but all the respectable in- 
habitants of Rio were admitted, the fair Isabel was as usual the cyrrosure of all admirirrg glances ; 
and while to all their flattering speeches she turned an inattentive ear, she was much struck with 
the appearance of a young stranger, who although not belonging to her own rank in life, was evident- 



THEWHITECROSS. 25 

ly one of " nature's noblemen," and she secretly acknowledged to herself that had any of her previous 
admirers but resembled him, her heart had not been so difficult to subdue; — never had she ex- 
perienced such sensations as those which now possessed her, and she was pleased, although unable 
to define the cause, to observe that he was evidently gazing upon her with an eye of sincere admira- 
tion. 

He was the son of a captain in the Imperial Army, who had fallen in the service of his country, 
and had left his son wholly dependant upon his own exertions for support. Long had he gazed 
with admiration amounting to idolatry, upon the lovely Isabel, whom he had often seen in pubhc ; 
never before, however, had he been thrown so directly into the society of one, whom, he felt, to see 
was to love ; and now that he could at leisure gaze upon those charms, he resigned himself to the 
control of his passion, and with a thrill of transport, observed that his admiration was noticed, and 
was evidently not disagreeable to its object. The last person noticed by Isabel, on leaving the ball, 
was the stranger, whose eyes were still intently fixed upon her, and if a responsive glance fiom her 
met his eye, who shall blame her 1 

In this country, where intrigue is the chief business of life, but little difficulty occurred in his con- 
veying to his " lady love" the intelligence that he lived but for her; and it would be tedious to nar- 
rate the manner in which he obtained his first interview with her. The greatest difficulty which 
arose was lespecting the place of meeting, until chance disclosed to them a path leading through the 
mountains from the Martini palace to the bay ; there in the face of heaven, alone, the lovers met in 
the still hour of midnight, and with the resplendent moon, and all the heavenly •' isles of light" alone 
for witnesses, told their love, and spoke of future happiness. 

Much difficulty attended their meetings, as it was necessary for Isabel to await the retiring of all 
the family, before she could leave her chamber, which she was enabled to do by means of a private 
door, communicating with the garden. Anxiously would she remain in the solitude of her apart- 
ment, until the entire cessation of noise within the house, bade her fly to her appointment ; then in 
her lover's arms, with no thought for aught on earth save him, in whom were centred all the resist- 
less feelings of her heart, would she be for a time completely happy ; as few will deny, that the en- 
joyments (and especially those of this description,) of which we partake by stealth, are more intense 
than those which we possess sanctioned by all around us. 

Thus had they met in secret, for several months, and now only awaited the sailing of a vessel, 
whose captain (convinced of the propriety thereof, by the argument of a well filled purse) had con- 
sented to receive them on board, and carry them to some far distant land, where secure from oppo- 
sition, and revenge, they might be happy in each other. But I am delaying the catastrophe too long, 
and will forthwith proceed to the denouement. 

To enable Isabel to carry into efifect her plans for meeting her lover, it had been necessary for 
her to make a confidante of a servant, whom she believed to be devotedly attached to her ; avarice, 
however, reigned triumphant in her soul, and she betrayed the secret to her mistress' father, for a 
sum of money. His rage at learning the disgrace thus brought upon his house, for as such he con- 
sidered it, cannot be described. 

I felt, but cannot paint his rage, 

If. 

He determined at once upon a terrible revenge ; that he might be certain of the fact, he had fol- 
lowed Isabel on this, their last night of meeting, and unseen, had been a witness of the lover's in- 
terview; he could scarcely restrain himself from at once rushing upon, and destroying the devoted 
lover, but he did so, and returned to his palace with the fixed resolve, that this meeting should be 
their last. 

On the following night, he took measures to detain his daughter in conversation for an hour be- 
yond the appointed time, and several of his servants were stationed at the place of meeting with 
orders to assassinate the unfortunate object of his wrath, on his arrival. 

At the appointed hour, Fernando hastened on the wings of love, to meet his mistress ; another 
night of beauty seemed to hallow his intent : nature was at rest, and the bright moon shone . coldly 
down, only to light him to his death ; with a light heart he entered his canoe, crossed the bay, and 
arrived on the opposite shore ; before he had time to notice and wonder at the absence of his mistress, 
the assassins' daggers were in his heart ; he died with her name upon his lips, and leaving him where 
he fell, the murderers fled. 

The moment that Isabel could disengage herself from her father, she humed to her room, and re- 
gardless of her former caution, flew to her appointment; her father watched, and at a distance fol- 
lowed her ; she soon reached the spot, and oh ! what a sight of horror met her eye ! hei lover, whom 
she last saw in all the radiant pride of beauty and of youth, now lay dead before her, pierced with 
many wounds, and covered with his blood ; she threw herself frantically beside him, hoping that 
some spaik of life might still be unextinguished. Such hopes, however, were in vain ; and as the 
thought flashed upon her that she had been betrayed, she gave herself up entirely to the horror and 
anguish of the moment ; it was but for an instant, however, for rising rapidly, she rushed with a 
frantic scream to the water's edge, and throwing herself into the depths beneath, which possessed no 
terrors for her, she sank to rise no more. 



26 burton's gentleman's magazine 

Her father had followed her to enjoy the sight of the betrayer of his house, (as he supposed,) 
lying dead before her, and to upbraid his daughter with the dishonor she had brought upon him. He 
was too late, he arrived but in time to see her sink beneath the wave. 

The waters wild, went o'er his child 
And he was left lamenting. 

The cross I saw is the sole monument to the unfortunate lovers. Such is the story I listened to, 
and I only regret my inability to do it greater justice ; such as it is, however, it is true, and many of 
the inliabitants still can tell of the surpassing beauty and tragic end of the fair and unfortunate 
Isabel de Martini. 

St. Augustine, East Florida, April 20th, 1839. 



EARTH AND OCEAN. 



A RHAPSODY, 



How beautiful, mother earth! thy varied scenes to me : 

Whether the cultured landscape smile with soften'd majesty, 

Or, in thy sterner aspect, rocks in wild confusion rise 

Abrupt, magnificently grand, their summits in the skies: 

Whether thou gleam'st with winter's sheen, or spring's gay smile dost wear. 

With summer blossoms cloth'd, or pale leaves of the dying year; 

Though 'neath night's star-inwovcn mantle wrapt in sacred gloom, 

Or blushing in the morning light, all fragrancy and bloom. 

Or basking with voluptuous looks in noontide's fervid ray. 

Or smiling through thy dewy veil meekly at close of day : 

Still, mother eaith ! in every mood, in every varied change. 

My heart could almost worship thee — so wonderfully strange. 

And thou, ocean ! beautiful, most beautiful thou art, 

And ever to my care-worn soul fresh joy dost thou impart. 

Whether fierce-wing'd with tempest-wrath, thou battiest with the sky. 

Or, like a cradled infant, singest thy low-sweet lullaby : 

In all thy shifting forms, I see the wonder-working skill 

Of laim who wakes thy wildest rage, or whispers " peace be still!" 

Thou mighty reservoir ! vast cauldron ! ever pouring forth 

Into the spongy air thy mists to fertilize the earth ; 

Like the heart's life-blood bubbling through each artery and vein. 

Returning by unnumber'd tubes back to the fount again ; 

So sea-fed clouds descend, springs gush, and rivers feed the main. 

Ocean! I never gaze on thee but solemn musings fill 

My eyes with tears, my heart with an unutterable thrill. 

Thou two-fold emblem ! of eternity thyself ; thy waves 

Of time, which rising from thee, find within thyself their graves. 

Vast as thou art, the moon's behests thou dost perforce obey ; 

And as she bids, dost rise or fall, obedient to her sway. 

Great moral lesson ! did we thus to virtue's rule conform, 

Ne'er should we mourn the wreck of peace amid our passions' storm. 



Lash. 



THE WASTE LANDS. 

A TALE. 

BT THE AUTHOR OP "WIID WATER POWB 



She had a song of— Wjllovi'— 
An old thing 'twas, but it expressed her fortune. 
And »he died singing it : that song, to night. 
Will not go from my mind. 

Othello. 



There lies in the north of England a considerable tract of land, now known by the name of the 
Waste Lands, which once formed the richest property of two wealthy families by whom untoward 
circumstances had caused it to be deserted. For some time, it was looked after by stewards, too much 
bent upon profiting themselves to regard the interests of their employers. The tenantry, who, drain- 
ed of their hard earnings, were obliged to vex the land till it became a bed of stones, dropped off one 
by one. The hedge-rows, being unremittingly assisted in the progress of decay by the paupers of 
the neighborhood, were soon reduced to nothing but dock-weeds and brambles ; which gradually 
uniting from the opposite ends of the fields, the property became a huge thicket, too encumbered 
ever to be worth clearing, and only valuable to poachers and gypsies, to whom it still affords abundant 
booty and a secure hiding place. 

The two mansions have kept pace in ruin with the lands around them. The persons left in charge 
of them, being subject to no supervision, put themselves but little out of their way to preserve that 
which was so lightly regarded by the owners. Too careless to repair the dilapidations of time and 
the weather, they were driven, by broken windows and rickety doors, from office to office, and from 
parlor to parlor, till ruin fairly pursued them into the grand saloon ; where the Turkey carpets were 
tattered by hob-nails, and the dogs of the chase licked their paws upon sofas of silk and satin. In due 
time, the rain forced its way through the roofs, and the occupiers having no orders to stop it with a 
tile, the breach became wider and wider. Soon the fine papering began to show discolored patches, 
and display the lath and plaster which bulged through it ; then the nails which supported the family 
portraits gave way with their burthens; and finally, the rafters began to yield, and the inhabitants 
wisely vacated the premises in time to avoid the last crash, rightly conjecturing that it was useless 
to leave the moveables behind to share in the common destruction, when there was so little likelihood 
of their ever being inquired after. 

Thus ended the pride both of HeronclifT and Hazledell, which may still be seen, from each other, 
about a mile apart, shooting up a few parti-colored walls from their untrimmed wildernesses, and 
seeming, like two desperate combatants, to stand to the last extremity; neither of them cheered by a 
sign of Ufe, excepting the jackdaws which sit perched upon the dead tips of the old ash trees, and 
the starlings that sweep around at sunset in circles, within which the country folks have rarely been 
hardy enough to intrude. 

The last possessor who resided at Hazledell was an eccentric old bachelor, with a disposition so 
composed of kindness and petulance, that every body liked, and scarcely any one could live with him. 
His relations had been driven away from him, one after the other ; — one because he presumed to 
plead the poverty of a tenant whom the old man had previously resolved upon forgiving his rent ; 
another, because he reserved the choice bin of the cellar when wine was prescribed for the sickness 
of the poor; and a third, because he suffered himself to be convinced in politics, and destroyed a fair 
subject for arguments which were intended to afford time to his company for discussing their good 
cheer. 

There was but one person who understood him, and this was his nephew; who continued to the 
last his only companion, and kept him alive solely by knowing how to manage him. He had the 
good taste never to remind him of his years by approaching him with that awe which is commonly 
demonstrated by young people towards the old ; and the tact to observe exactly where his foibles 
would bear raillery, and where they required sympathy. He could lead him from one mood to another, 



20 burton's gentleman's MAGAZINSe 

so thai the longest day in his company never seemed monotonous ; oi if he rambled away amongst 
the neighborhood, he could return at night with a tale of adventures which sent him to bed without 
repining at the prospect of to-mwrow. Unluckily the old man considered him too necessary to his 
comforts to part with him ; and though merely the son of a younger brother, without fortune or ex- 
pectations, he was not permitted to turn his mind to a profession, or to any thing beyond the present. 
The youth, however, was scarcely twenty -three ; and at such an age, a well-supplied purse for the 
time being leaves but little anxiety for the future. 

With a good education, picked up as he could by snatches, a sprightly disposition, and a talent 
equal to any thing, young Vibert of Hazledell was as welcome abroad as he was at home; and it 
■was argued that his handsome figure and countenance would stand him in the stead of the best pro- 
fession going. The young ladies would turn from any beau at the country-ball to greet his arrival, 
and never think of engaging themselves to dance till they were quite sure that he was disposed of. 
One remarked upon the blackness of his hair, another upon the whiteness of his forehead; and the 
squires who weie not jealous of him would entertain them with his feats of horsemanship and adroit- 
ness at bringing down, right and left. Still Vibert was not spoiled ; and the young ladies pulled up 
their kid gloves till they split, v^'ithout making any visible impression upon him. His obstinacy was 
quite incomprehensible. Each ridiculed the disappointment of her friend, in the hope of concealing 
her own ; and all turned for consolation to the young master of Heroncliff. 

Marcus of Heroncliif, was nearly of an age with Vibert, and was perhaps still more popular with 
the heads of families, if not with the younger branches ; for he had the advantage of an ample fortune. 
His person, also, was well formed, and his features were, for the most part, handsome ; but the first 
had none of the grace of Vibert, and the last had a far different expression. His front, instead of 
being cast in that fine expansive mould, was contracted and low, and denoted more cunning than 
talent. His eye was too deeply sunk to indicate openness or generosity ; and the tout ensemble gave 
an idea of sulkiness and double-dealing. It was held by many that his outward appearance was not 
a fair index of his disposition, which was said to be liberal and good-natured. The only fault which 
they found with him was, that his conversation seemed over-much guarded for one of his age. He 
appeared unwilling to show himself as he really was, and the greatest confidence which could be re- 
posed in him produced no corresponding return. He walked in society like one who came to look 
on rather than mix in it ; and although his dependants lived in profusion, his table was rarely en- 
livened save by the dogs which had been the companions of his sport. 

Vibert, whose character it was to judge always favorably, believed that his manner and mode of 
life proceeded from the consciousness of a faulty education, and a mistrust of his capacity to redeem 
lost time. He felt a friendliness for him, bordering upon compassion ; and their near neighborhood 
affording him frequent opportunities of throwing himself in his way, a considerable degree of intimacy 
was, in course of time, established between them. Vibert was right, as far as he went, in his esti- 
mate of his friend's mind ; but he never detected its grand feature. Marcus was sensible that he was 
below par amongst those of his rank, and a proud heart made him bitterly jealous of all who had the 
advantage of him. It was this that gave verity to the expression which we have before noticed in 
his features; made him a torment to himself; and rendered him incapable of sympathising with 
others. If a word were addressed to him, he believed that it was designed to afford an opportunity 
of ridiculing his reply; if he chanced to be contradicted, his visage blackened as though he felt that 
he had been insulted. Vibert, so open to examination, was the only person whom he did not suspect 
and dread. They hunted, shot, -and went into society together ; and it was observed that Marcus lost 
nothing by the contact. His confidence increased, his reserve in some degree disappeared, and 
Vibert secretly congratulated himself on having fashioned a battery to receive the flattering attentions 
from which he was anxious to escape. His ambition, indeed, was otherwise directed. 

At a few miles' distance from Hazledell was a pretty estate, called Silvermere, from a small lake, 
■which reflected the front of the dwelling and the high grounds and rich timber behind it. It was 
inhabited by persons of consideration in the county, who were too happy at home to mix much with 
their neighbors. In fact, of a numerous family, there was but one daughter old enough to be in- 
troduced; and she was of a beauty so rare, that theie was little danger in keeping her upon hand 
until her sister was of an age to accompany hei into society. 

In this family, Vibert had been for some time a favorite, and had been fascinated on his first in- 
troduction to it. The beauty of whom we have made mention, and her sister, a year or two younger, 
■were placed on either side of him ; and it was hard to know whether most to admire the wild tongue 
and laughing loveliness of the younger — the fair-haired Edith ; or the retiring, but attractive dignity 
of the black eyes and pale fine features of the elder — the graceful Marion. They were, perhaps, both 
pleased to see the hero of the county conversations , but the younger one was the foremost to display 
it ; without being a flirt, she was frank, and had the rare, natural gift of saying and doing what she 
pleased without danger of misconstruction. 

The daring but femmine gaiety of this young creature speedily dispelled from the mind of Vibert 
all idea of his recent acquaintance. On his showing any recollection of it, she assured him that, on 
her part, the acquaintance was by no means recent, for she had heard him discussed as often as any 
Knight of the Round Table. 



THE WASTE LANDS. 29 

"To place you upon an equality with us," she said, " I will tell }'ou what sort of persons we are, 
and you can judge v.'hcthcr, at any future time, when your horse happens to knock up in our 
neighborhood, and your dinner to be five miles off, you will condescend to take advantage of us. 
Papa and mamma, who you see have been a handsome couple, and would think themselves so still 
if they had not such a well grown family, are by no means rigid, exacting, fault-finding, and dis- 
agreeable, like papas and ■mammas in general. They have had the good taste to discover our precose 
talents, and profit by being our companions instead of our rulers, from the time we learned the art 
of spelling words of one syllable, and doing as we were not bidden. Instead of scolding us for our 
misdeeds, they used to reason with us as to their propriety, and generally got the worst of the argu- 
ment ; so, saving that in virtue of our old companionship we make them the confidants of most of 
our dilemmas, they have brought us up charmingly undutiful and self-willed. 

"As for Marion, she is a young lady erroneously supposed to be the pride of the family, who pre- 
sumes to regard me with a patronising complacency, and to encourage me in the idea that, one of 
these days, I shall really learn to talk. She is a sedate personage, who tries to reflect upon things ; 
but, as the same deep study has shaded her brow as long as I can recollect, I imagine that she does 
not often come to a conclusion. Yet the falsely-styled pride of Silvermere does not blanch her cheeks 
in the unwholesome atmosphere of learned tomes ; nor by spinning the globes, nor by hunting the 
stars. Her character is a little touched with romance, and her study is how to mend a bad world, 
which continues aihng in spite of her. She gives all her consolation, and half of her pin-money, to 
a tribe of old dames and young damsels, who, under such patronage, only pull our hedges in greater 
security, or add fiesh colors to the costume which is to flaunt triumphant on the fair day. The 
urchins whom she teaches ' to guess their lessons,' and buys off from aiding in the toils of their 
parents, are the most mischievous in the neighborhood ; and, in short, things go on worse and worse, 
and poor Marion does not know what to make of it. From the humbler world, so different from the 
Arcadian affair of her imagination, she turns with despair to the sphere in which she is herself to 
move, and shudders at the prospect of disappointment there also. Where, amongst such a community 
of young ladies battling for precedence, and young gentlemen vowing eternal constancy to a dozen 
at a time, can she look for the friend of her soul, or the more favored being who is to console her for 
the want of one 1 Alas, the pride of Silvermere ! with feelings so delicate that a gossamer might 
wound them, how can she accommodate herself to any world but that of the fairy tales which de- 
lighted our nursery, or expect tranquility in any place but a cloister?" 

Vibert's calls were repeated often, each one affording a pretext for another, and each visit growing 
longer than the last. The father of his two attractions was required frequently by his affairs in 
London, where he spent weeks at a time, and their mother was generally confined by delicate health 
to her chamber. Thus Vibert's intimacy with them had but little ceremony to restrain its rapid 
advancement ; and he soon felt, what has perhaps been felt by many, that the simple smile of the 
dignified and retiring is more perilous than the brightest glance of wit and vivacity. Indeed, Edith 
was too gay to be suspected of any thought beyond that of amusement ; but the actions of Marion 
were more measured, and her approbation was the more flattering. Vibert laughed when he en- 
countered the first; but his pulse beat quicker at the sight of the last. 

There seems in the affairs of the heart to be an unaccountable intelligence, by which, without the 
use of external signs, the tremors of the one generally find their reverberation in the other. Often 
as Vibert entered to share in the morning amusements of the sisters, to give an account of the horse 
that he was breaking in for Marion, or the dog that he was teaching antics for Edith, it was im- 
possible for him to be insensible to an increasing flush of satisfaction at his appearance, and by de- 
grees he gave up all other society, and had no pastime to which Marion was not a party. Both 
young, both interested in the other's happiness, it was not likely that they should reflect how the 
brightest flowers may be the seat of poison, and the sweetest moments the parents of miser}'. Their 
intimacy became more confidential ; and Edith left them more and more to themselves to seek 
amusement elsewhere. Still theie was no question of love. Vibert knew that, without fortune or 
expectations, he could have no jKetension to Marion : and that the number of her young brothers and 
sisters must render it impossible for her father to remedy the deficiency. It was then that he felt the 
extent of the sacrifice he had made in devoting himself so entirely to his uncle. Had he adopted any 
profession, he might have obtained a home of his own, to say the least ; and, however humble that 
home might have been, would Marion have shrunk from it 1 Would Marion have failed to make it 
the richest spot upon earth 1 He was yet only of an age when many commence their career ; his 
mind was too active and too brilliant to suffer his habits to become ao fixed but that he could turn 
them to any thing. He determined upon breaking the matter to his uncle; and, as Edith was now 
eighteen, and the sisters were just about to appear in public, there was no time to be lost. If Marion 
were not to go forth with a hand already engaged, what had he not to apprehend! Fortune and 
honors would be at her feet — friends would reason — parents might command — and what had she to 
reply 1 She loved an idler who lived upon another's bounty, and whose future means were some- 
thing worse than precarious ! He seized upon what he thought a good opportunity, the same 
evening. His uncle was enjoying his arm-chair and slippers beside an ample fire, to which the pat- 
tering of a November storm gave additional comfort. 



30 burton's gentleman's magazine. 

" Vibert,*" said he, " what have been youi adventures to-day 1" 

" I have been to Silvermere." 

« Folks tell me you have been there every day for the last twelvemonth — and who have you seen 
there]" 

« I have seen Marion." 

" Well, nephew, she is good-looking, you say; and sensible, and all that. Why do you not marry 
her, and bring her home to make tea for us 1" 

" Alas ! I would willingly do so, had I the means." 

"We can get over that obstacle, I think, by doubling your allowance." 

" My dear sir, you do not undeistand its full extent. Marion's family would never consent, unless 
she were to be the mistress of an establishment of her own." 

« We can remedy that, too, Vibert. Divide the house with me at the middle of the cellar, and 
brick up the communications. Divide the stables and the horses ; have new wheels and new arms 
to the old family rumble-tumble, and make any farther arrangements you please. You have been a 
good boy, to bear with a crazy old man so long, and I should not like you to be a loser by it." 

" My dear uncle, there was no need of this additional generosity to secure my gratitude, and my 
endeavors to prove it. I did not speak for the purpose of placing any farther tax upon you, but merely 
to consult you whether it were not better that I thought of some profession, by which I might attain 
a position in Ufe not liable to reverse." 

"A profession! — what, one that would call you away from HazledelH" 

" I fear all professions would subject me to that affliction." 

The uncle's color rose and his brow darkened. 

" Vibert leave me in my old age, when I have become entirely dependant upon him ! Vibert knock 
away the only crutch that props me up from the grave — bequeath me to the mercy of hired servants, 
with not a soul to exchange a word of comfort with me ! What fortune could you obtain which 
would compensate for reflections like these 1 

" Stay, nephew, and see me into my grave — the reverse which you apprehend — I never thought 
that you could so coldly contemplate my extinction ; but it is right and natural that you should do 
so. Only stay — and I promise you that I will not keep you long — I will curtail my expenses, banish 
my few old friends, dismiss my servants, and live upon bread and water, to save what I can for you 
from the estate. I cannot cause it to descend to you ; but, at all events, I can save you as much as 
you would be likely to make by leaving me. Yet, if it be your wish to go, even go ; I had rather 
you would leave me miserable, than stay to wish me dead." 

The old man had worked himself into a fit of childish agitation, and Vibert saw that argument 
Avas useless. 

" Uncle," he replied, with a look and voice of despair, " make yourself easy, Marion will find 
another husband, who will perhaps render her happier than I could, and I will remain with you as 
I have done hitherto." 

From this time, Vibert spared no effort to overcome his ill-starred passion, as well for Marion's 
sake as for his own ; seeking every possible pretext to render his visits less frequent, and to pay them 
in company. Marion perceived the change at the moment it took place, and, although she could 
not dispute its propriety, her sensibility was v/ounded to the quick. She commenced her first round 
of provincial gaiety with a fever at her heart, and an ominous presage of sorrow. 

The appearance of the Silvermere party formed an epoch in the annals of the county — and, as 
Vibert had forseen, there was not a squire of the smallest pretensions who did not address himself 
sedulously to make th** agreeable to them. They had little encouragement, however, in their at- 
tempts, excepting from Edith. Her heart was free, and her tongue was full of joy ; but Marion was 
looking for the return of Vibert; and the reserved glance of her eye kept flattery at a distance, and 
hope in fetters. Still he returned not — she never met him in society, but she constantly heard of 
his having been at balls and merry-maldngs where she was not. It was in the vain pursuit of his 
peace of mind ; and she was too generous to attribute it to any thing else. On his occasional visits 
of ceremony she received him as if nothing material had happened ; but the flush was gone from her 
cheek, and the smile that remained was cold and sickly. 

Meantime, rumor was liberal in assigning to each of the sisters her share of intended husbands, 
Vibert listened to the catalogue with all the trepidation of a lover who had really entertained hopes, 
Alas ! if that selfish principle of denying to another what we cannot enjoy ourselves be excusable in 
any case it is so in love. The loved object which belongs to no other still appears to be in some de- 
gree our own ; and fancy conjures up, in spite of us, an indefinable trust in the future, of which the 
total destruction falls like the blow of an assassin. It was thus with Vibert, when, after writhing 
long in secret anguish at the mention of any name connected with that of Marion, report from all 
quarters concurred in the same uncontradicted tale. Marion was receiving the addresses of Marcus 
of Heroncliff : of him, for whom he had himself, from motives of the purest kindness, secured the 
good thoughts of her family — him whom he had made the confidant of his love — him who had pro- 
fessed himself to be only waiting for encouragement to throw himself at the feet of her sister ! That 
he should have met him daily, and never hinted at the change in his intentions ! Yet might it not 



THE WASTE LANDS. 31 

have been that he feared to inflict piin 1 Tiiat he should have deserted Edith when his conduct 
had imphed all that was devoted ! Yet, was it not for Marion 1 But then, that Marion should have 
become the rival of her sister ! Yet, oh ! how soon she had overcome the remembrance of him, and 
how natural was it for the cold in love to become the faithless in friendship. Thus Vihert went on 
arguing for and against all the parties, and winding up with a forced ejaculation of — " It is nothing' 
to me — it is no atTair of mine." It was meant to confirm his pride, but only proved his wretched 
ness. 

Upon this principle, and from a sense of his want of self-possession, the name of Marion nevet 
passed his lips in the presence of Marcus, who, on his part, was equally silent. 

The report upon which this conduct was adopted was not so destitute of reason as those which 
had preceded it. Marcus, with the failing already noticed, was incapable of being a true friend ; 
and, though at his first introduction at iSilvermere, the marked intelligence between Marion and 
Vibert reduced him to the necessity of devoting his attentions to Edith, yet the circumstance of her 
sister's preference for another was sufhcient to kindle in his heart the most burning anxiety to obtain 
her for himself. "Without considering Vibert's earlier acquaintance, he felt himself eclipsed, and his 
honor wounded. The moment, therefore, that his friend's visits were discontinued, his own were 
redoubled. They were naturally, from his previous behavior, laid by the family to the account of 
Edith; and, upon this conviction, Marion often used him as a protection against the advances of her 
unwelcome host of admirers. If she was asked to dance, she was engaged to Marcus ; and his arm 
was always ready to conduct her to her carriage. It was observed that she received much more of 
his attention than was bestowed upon her sister; and insensibly their manner in public became the 
practice in private, where there was no need for it. His hopes rose high, and he scrupled not to 
advance them by endeavoring to extirpate the last kind feeling which he thought might yet linger 
for poor Vibert. One while he affected chagrin, and invented excesses on the part of his friend as 
the cause of it : at another time he was incensed at injurious words, which he alleged to have been 
employed by Vibert towards heiself. At last, when he thought himself quite secure, he disclosed his 
passion, and was rejected with astonishment. 

The sting, for one like him, had a thousand barbs : he loved the beautiful Marion with all the 
energy of a soul which had never before loved a human being. Common report, and his confidence 
in her resentment against Vibert, had made him consider her as already his own. His triumph over 
all the competitors that he had feared, envied, and detested, was, as he deemed, on the eve of com- 
pletion ; and now he was to be the object of derision and mock pity ! The means which he had 
used to ingratiate himself would probably be divulged. The inmost core of his heart would be ex- 
posed and scorned ; and Vibert, whom he felt to be the latent cause of his rejection, was, perhaps, 
finally to be reinstated, and to flaunt his triumph daily before his eyes ! The very evils which bad 
minds have attempted to inflict upon others, become a provocation to themselves: they have been de- 
feated, and therefore they have been injured ; and the rejected suitor returned home pallid and quiver- 
ing with an ague fit of mortal hate. 

The attentions of Marcus had never been discussed between the sisters until the occurrence of this 
'catastrophe. He left them in a shaded alley of the pleasure-grounds, which were beginning to be 
strewed with the yellow leaves of autumn ; and a clouded sunset cast a few long streaks across the 
sward, and made the deep recesses look still more sombre. 

There are few who do not feel a melancholy peculiar to this period of the year. Marion had a 
double reason; for it Avas about the same time in the preceding autumn, and in the summer-house 
but a few steps before her that she had passed the last happy hour with Vibert ! 

" Marion," said Edith, as they walked on, with their arms fondly resting upon each other's neck, 
" you are not well. It is long since you were well ; but I had hoped that the attachment of Marcus 
would have dispelled a deep grief, of which you forbade me ever to speak. I trusted that your heart 
had been arrested in its progress of sorrow, and I was silent, lest you should think me jealous of my 
sweet rival." 

" Heavens ! that my apathy should have been so great as to mistake his intentions. I only bore 
with him because I thought him yours." 

" Marion, I never should have wished him loved by yoii, had I not felt that your life depended on 
the diversion of your thoughts. I have been mistaken ; you have been dying daily, and, unless you 
would have me die with you, let me write to Vibert. Sweet Marion, let me write, as from myself, 
in my own wild way, merely to bid him come and dance on my birthday." 

"No, Edith, no. He would suspect the reason; it is too humihating. I have still pride enough 
left to save me from contempt, if not to support me from Edith, let us talk of other things." 

She leaned her head upon her sister's bosom, and both were weeping, when they were startled by 
the gallop of a horse, and a ring at the garden gate. Edith saw that it was the servant of Vibert, 
and she sprang hke a fawn to inquire his commission. He brought a letter for Marion, and thus it 
ran: 

" The relations who stood between me and the succession to the estates of Hazledell are deaa. I 
am now my uncle's heir; but I fear too late. The sorrow of withdrawing myself to my proper dis 
tance when I was poor is probably to be followed up by the anguish of being forbidden to return now 

TOL. T. — so. r. B 



32 burton's gentleman's magazine. 

that I am licb. I dare not appear before you till I hear the refutation of your reported engagements 
with Marcus — till you bid me look forward to a termination of the misery which a feeling of honor 
&lt;2'bliged me to inflict upon myself." 

Marion sank for support against the ivy-twined pillar of the summer house. Edith kissed her pale 
«heek, and fondly whispered, " I told you so : what answer will you sendl" After the first moments 
of tremulous agitation — after an interval of silence, to lull the tumults of her heart, Marion merely 
ejaculated, " Poor Vibert ! I thought he had forgotten me !" 

"Bather say, poor Edith," replied her sister, with a burst of that natural gaiety which had of late 
almost forsaken her ; " poor Edith has now the willow-wreath all to herself. Alas ! for some 
doughty champion to twine it round the neck of the false lord of HeronclifT! 
" Here — here is a pencil — the servant waits for a reply." 

Marion tore the back from her letter, and wrote — " The reports are unfounded — the future is in 
3':our power." 

" Edith !" she said, when the messenger was dismissed, " give me your arm back to the house, for 
I feel faint. In the midst of all this happiness, there is a sickness at my heart — a strange boding, 
that I am only tantalized by chimeras, and meant for misfortune. Perhaps I deceive myself. Per- 
haps it is only the strange bewilderment occasioned by this revolution in all that interests me. I can- 
not help it." 

It was a gusty and querulous night. The old trees by their window groaned as though they were 
ia trouble, and the scud swept along the sky like a host of spectres, Marion's distressing fancies 
were not to be calmed, and grew even more excited by the restless and apparently preternatural 
spirits of her sister, who discussed their prospects in her wildest vein. She arranged that when 
Marien became the lady of Hazledell, she also was to call it her home, make herself the sole object 
of attraction and tournament to all the squires round about, and display her true dignity by remain- 
ing a scornful lady and a respectable maiden aunt. By degrees, her fancy ceased castle-building — 
■a few unconnected sparks of vanity grew fainter and fainter, and she dropped asleep. Marion had 
no wish or power to repose; her nervous sense of apprehension continued to increase; she tried 
every effort to direct her thoughts toother subjects, but they invariably became entangled, and again 
pressed with a dead weight upon her heart. In this mood she v/as startled by Edith laughing in her 
sleep, with a sound which terrified her. 

" Edith !" she cried, shaking her till she partially awoke ; " Edith — you frighten me — why do you 
laugh in your sleep V 

" I laughed," replied Edith, drowsily, and scarce knowing what she said, "I laughed at some one 
who preached to me of the vanity of human expectations." She again muttered a laugh, and a second 
iime diopped asleep. 

Notwithstanding the note of Marion, the night at Hazledell had seemed to bring with it a sense 
■of sadness, no less than it had done at Silvermere. Vibert's uncle had retired to rest with an ominous 
feeling of distress at the news of his deceased relations. After a while he had come back to shake 
hands with him again. The young ones, he said, were dropping about him, and leaving him desolate 
to lament the luckless humors which had impeded him from adding to their comforts as he might 
have done. Every joint of him trembled lest he should live too long. " God bless you, Vibert !" 
he added, " you have always been a good boy, and have borne kindly with my infirmities — God bless 
you ! God bless you ! Vibert, you will go to-morrow to Silvermere ? I have long prevented you 
from being happy, and you owe me no thanks that you arc so at last. Go to bed — you have grown 
thin from want of sleep ; and it is all my fault." 

He quitted him again with affectionate and almost childish reluctance ; and Vibert paced his room, 
in a fever of anticipation, till the rising of the sun, which had seemed as if it never meant to rise 
again. It was still too early to set out for Silvermere, but he knew that Marcus rose with the dawn 
for his field-sports, and his generous mind was unwilling to lose an instant in acknowledging and 
asking pardon for the suspicions which he had entertained of his friendship. He walked rapidly to 
Heroncliff, and found Marcus, as he had anticipated, up and dressed; in fact, he had passed the night 
■in the same manner as he himself had done, and his face looked haggard and wild. 
-" Marcus," said Vibert, " I come to tell you a piece of strange news " 

■■"J know it already," replied Marcus, with an attempt to look glad. " I met your servant going to 
'^SilvfiTOiere with it. Your uncles in India are dead." 

" I scarcely recollect them, and it would therefore be ridiculous to affect much grief for their loss; 
but the circumstance has been the means of showing me an injustice committed against yourself, at 
which I am sincerely grieved. I believed that you entertained an intention of supplanting me in the 
love of Marion; and although my reason had nothing to object to it, my heart felt that it was not 
the part which I would have acted towards you. I have accused you bitterly; but see, Marion has 
herself exculpated you ; and you must even forgive me as one who has been too unhappily bewilder- 
ed to be master of himself." 

Marcus took his offered hand and laughed, but with a fearful expression, which he strove to hide 
casting his eyes on the ground. 
-&lt;' Then Marion," he observed, " looks forward to being the lad}' of Hazledell 1" 



THE WASTE LANDS. 33 

"Ay, and to do the honors of it to her sister, the lady of Heroncliff. My son shall many your 
daughter, and we will join the estates in one." 

Marcus drew in his breath with a harrowing sound. 

" Vibert," he said, " we had best remain unmarried ; we are more independent to pursue our 
pastimes : we are not obliged to receive the society which is odious to us ; and, whilst we are free, 
we are the more welcomed abroad. Promise me you will think no more of it." 
■ " You would not ask it, if you felt, like me, that you were beloved by Marion. What do I care 
for independence and my reception abroad, when I have such a thraldom and such a paradise at 
home !" 

" You are determined, then ■?" 

" Can you doubt it 1 I am even now on my way to Silvermere. I should arrive too soon on 
horseback, and am therefore obliged to walk, for I cannot be easy till I find myself on my way 
thither. Come, take your gun, and accompany me." 

" I will accompany, in the hope of dissuading you, and bringing you back before you arrive there." 
" And I will drag you into fetters whether you will or not. Come ; it is time (o start, if we would 
be there by breakfast-time. What ails you 1 You look pale and shivering, this morning ; and see, 
for the first lime in your life, you have forgotten your gun." 

With that he kindly took it from where it stood, and presented it to him. 
" I will not take it," said Marcus, vaguely ; " I am nervous, and cannot shoot." 
" Tut, man ; take your gmi, I say ; a good shot will put you in spirits. There is an outlying deer 
from Hazledell in the Black Valley, and you must kill him for our wedding feast." 

Marcus bit his white lips, and did as he was bidden ; and the companions set out upon their walk. 

The weather was still gusty and uncertain. The faint gleam of the sun was rapidly traversed by 

the clouds, which seemed to overrun each other, in wild and fearful confusion. Several large trees 

■were blown across the pathways, and the crows skimmed aloft in unsettled course, as though they 

were afraid to perch. 

" How I love this bracing air !" said Vibert. " I feel as if I could fly." 

" You feel elastic from your errand. I have no such cause, and I would fain that the morning had 
been calmer. I think that long usage to blustering weather would have a strong effect upon men's 
passions, and render them too daring and reckless." 

As they descended the brow of fern and scattered plantations, from his bleak residence, his per- 
suasions that Vibert would return became more and more urgent. He used, in a wild, disjointed 
manner, all the vain arguments to which the selfish and the dissipated generally resort to dissuade 
their friends from what they call a sacrifice of liberty. They were easily overruled, and his agitation 
grew the more violent. In this manner they arrived at the entrance of the Black Valley, a gorge of 
rock, and varied earth, choked up by trees and bushes, chance-sown, by the birds and the winds. 
This valley was between two and three miles in length, its gloom was unbroken by a single habita- 
tion, and it had been the witness of many atrocities. It was a place usually avoided; but it was the 
shortest road to Silvermere, and Vibert never visited it by any other. 

" I do not like this valley !" said Marcus ; " we will take the upper road." 

" It is too far about — come on — you are not yourself this morning, and the sooner Edith laughs at 
you the better." 

They were making a short cut through the tangled thicket, from one path to another, and had 
reached a more gloomy and savage spot than they had hitherto encountered. Marcus sat down upon 
a piece of splintered timber, and motioned Vibert, with a gasping earnestness which was not to be 
disputed, to seat himself beside him. 

" Marcus," said the latter, as he complied, " your conduct is inexplicable. Why are you so 
anxious that I should not go to Silvermere, nor renew my acquaintance with Marion 1 You must 
have some reason for all this; and, if so, why conceal it from me 1" 

"If nothing short of such an extremity will induce you to follow my counsel, I must even come 
to it. Maiion is not what you have supposed her. You imagine that her love for you has kept her 
single. Ask of whom you will, if such be the general opinion. Till yesterday, she gave herself to 
another, who cannot aspire to a thousandth part of your merit, but who happened to be more favored 
by fortune. Last night, you became the richest, and she changed ; but would Vibert be contented 
with a partner who preferred another V 

" Marcus ! — this other ! It is of yourself you speak 1" 

" Ask all the world, if she did not make herself notorious with me. She made me distrust all 
womankind. Vibert, let us both leave her to the reflections of one who has deserved to be forsaken." 
" May it not be that you, and not I, have mistaken her 1 She might have preferred your company 
because you were my friend, and you might have fancied that she loved you because you loved her. 
It is needless to contradict me — men do not tremble and turn pale because their friends are going to 
marry jilts. I do not blame you; for not to love Marion is beyond the power even of fiiendship. 
Let us only be fair rivals, and not attempt to discourage each other by doing her injustice. Let us 
go hand in hand, and each prefer his suit. For my part, I promise you, that if you succeed, I will 
yield without enmity." 



34 burton's gentleman's i 

Marcus staggered as he rose. Vibert's countenance was grave but not unfrienJIy. 

" Go on then," said the former, in a deep broken voice, and with every feature convulsed ; at the 
same time, he turned himself homeward ; and Vibeit, seeing that it was advisable to part company, 
pursued his course towards Silvermere. Marcus made but a few strides and paused. He clenched 
his teeth, and cast a wild glance at his rifle — made one or two hesitating steps, and then bounded after. 

Long and intense was the watch which the sisters kept that morning in the direction of the Black 
Valley, but no one was seen to come forth from it. 

" In other times," said Marion, " Vibert could arrive to breaifast, and it is now long past noon." 

Edith was not mistress of the gay consolation which had so often turned a tear to a smile, and 
framed an excuse out of the wild and stormy weather, which it was evident her own heart could 
not admit. 

"He did not use to mind stormy weather," returned Marion. " Besides, we heard a shot fired, 
and we know that no one has the range of the Black Valley but Vibert and his friend Marcus." 

" It was, perhaps, only the cracking of some time-worn stem, giving way to the hurricane ; and, 
if it was a shot, we must take into consideration the peculiar nature of our cavaliers of the world, 
and make allowance for what they cannot help. How can we suppose that Vibert could pass the 
Badger's Bank without paying his compliments to the wild cat, or enjoying the shriek of the bird 
of prey that comes thither to tear his victim 1 He will be here to dinner, and make amends for his 
slowness by a strange tale of the wonders which caused it." 

" Edith, you are drawing the character of Marcus — this is not like Vibert." 

" Well, well, then — do not speak with such a tremor, and he shall be a bright exception ; and the 
only punishment he shall have is to be dismissed from your mind, just whilst I tell you why I have 
been thinking of the faithless Marcus. Do you listen 1 Yes. Why, then, dear Marion, I must 
have you guess the reason for my sage determination to obtain reverence as a maiden-aunt." 

" Edith !" 

" Yes, yes — I see you have guessed aright. 'Tis a false-hearted but, Marion, he was my first ; 

and to be deserted for you is not a crime which makes him an absolute monster. Come away from 
this window, and let us rest our eyes, for they have followed the battling of the kites and crows till 
Tve grow giddy, and dreamy, and fanciful. Come, come, my bride of Hazledell, and listen to the lost 
T?its of the soon undisputed pride of Silvermere." 

It was late in the day when they joined the rest of the family, and still no tidings had been heard 
of Vibert. There was a silence in the circle which proved that their uneasiness was not confined 
to themselves, and presently the consternation was completed by the mysterious countenance of a 
servant who called out his master. Marion and Edith clasped each other's neck in the sure presen- 
timent of something fatal. The truth was less cruel than their suspense, for though communicated 
with all the care and tenderness which its nature required, it left them insensible to the horrors of 
which they had been the victims. The sisters and the two friends were doomed never to meet again. 
The fate of Vibert had been discovered by the game-keepers as they were taking their evening round, 
by the spot where he had been left bleeding and breathless by the dastard hand of his rival. That 
of Marcus was best known to the fiends which pursued him. 

We will not swell our history with an account of all the gradations by which a thrilling horror 
may settle down to a calm and lasting woe. The first news which followed the foregoing events re- 
lated to Vibert's uncle. His infirm frame had sunk beneath his afiliction, and he lay in the family- 
vault beside his unfortunate nephew. Of Marcus, nothing had ever been heard. A stranger had 
been found, apparently self-destroyed, in a distant part of the country, but nobody had come forward 
to recognize him. There was, of course, a surmise that this might have been the fugitive, Marcus, 
and, whether true or false, he never gave grounds for any other. 

Years passed away, but the characters of Marion and Edith resumed no more their natural tone. 
The last was never seen to resume her smiles, nor the first drop a tear. Their feelings had been 
trampled down too rudely to spring again. What were their fates eventually is an inquiry of small 
importance — the history of their hearts is concluded. 



ELLE ME VOIT." 



Though I may roam Italia's plains, 
And with her fairest daughters toy, 

"Whilst listening to their magic strains, 
My heart still whispers, " EUe me volt." 

And while in mirth's most joyous round. 



The happiest moments still I've found, 
Have been while thinking, " Elle me voit." 

Tho' gayest scenes my visions fill, 

And all my waking thoughts employ ; 
Tho' for a time I'm happy, still 



And gaiety that scarce can cloy, — I think and feel but, « Elle me voit." Fehd. 



THE ETERNAL FIRE 

ON THE BANKS OF THE CASPIAN SEA 



BT JOHN EICIIFELD, 



This fire is in the peninsula of Apsclieron, twenty versts from Baku, and is justly called one of 
the wonders of southern Russia. I have visited this spot. It is a burning desert, from the surface 
of which subterraneous (lames here and there issue, which are occasioned by the exhalations of the 
naptha. Though this fire ma}- not be eternal, yet it is extremely old, for there are traditions of the 
origin of simiUar phenomena* in other parts; for instance, in the Ural, on the river Mangischlak, 
in the village of Sulp-Aul (v. Pallas) and that which I have seen in Wallachia, on the little river 
Slanika, near the village of Lapatar, on Mount Klaschna. But the origin of the fire in the neigh- 
borhood of Baku is buried in the obscurity of the remotest antiquity. 

The first appearance of this fire, in an age when the phenomena of nature were so little known 
and explored, might appear supernatural. It is well known that Media was the seat of Zoroaster's 
doctrine, and the introduction of those mysterious receptacles of the eternal fire, which the Maho- 
metans every where destroyed. Only the miraculous flame of Baku arrested the blind fury of the 
Mahometans. The temple consecrated to fire is still preserved by the remnant of the ancient Parsees, 
or fire-worshippers, who, though scattered over the immense tracts of Persia and India, come hither 
to perform the prayers imposed on them by their vows. This temple, however, is no beautiful 
specimen of architecture, but a simple stone square, in the centre of which stands the altar, from 
which issues the eternal fire. The flat roof is supported on four columns, from which a constant 
fire, conducted by tubes, likewise ascends. On thg roof, above the altar, is a fittle belfry. 

On dark nights this temple is descried even at a great distance, and is the more interesting and 
majestic in the eyes of the traveller, as the brilliant flame does not resemble Vulcan's destructive fire, 
but is like some mystei:ious phenomenon awakening sublime recollections of antiquity. 

Within the wall which surrounds the temple, there are some stone houses, and a small garden, 
the residences of eight Parsee monks."|- During the time of worship, they strike the bell once, 
generally on their entrance into the temple, and then prostrate themselves before the altar. After 
remaining for a pretty considerable time in this position, they arise, strike the bell once more, and 
then finish their prayers. They give the fire the firstlings of every sort of food. They eat no meat, 
and live entirely on vegetables. Their particular affection to animals is probably the cause of it ; the 
guardians of the Holy Fire keep a great number of dogs, which they treat as friends and companions. 

It is evident that they prefer their religion to all others, and consider themselves as purer than 
other men, because they are favored with the purest notions of the divinity. In conversing with 
persons of a different religion, they protect themselves by certain prayers, which they repeat in an 
under voice. They seemed much displeased when my companions weie going to dress their dinner 
at the same fire as theirs. To satisfy them, I had the kettle removed to another part. When they 
carried water near us, they always cried out, Brama, Brama, Brama, doubtless to counteract our 
influence upon it. Perhaps they have a particular respect for water; at least, in remote antiquity, it 
was considered, by many of the followers of Zoroaster, as a divinity. 

The atmosphere in the temple, and in the surrounding court-yard, is very warm, on which ac. 
count the monks wear a very light clothing. 

It is reported that the monks, in former times, frequently made singular vows; for instance, to re- 
main for several years in a constrained attitude, with their arms raised, oi holding up one foot, etc. 

* They originated, at no very distant period, by the lightning having rent the upper hard layer of 
the mountain, which made an issue for the inflammable vapors, and, at the same time, caused the 
flames to arise. 

-\ The Europeans call them, as well as all other fire-worshippers, Guebers ; which seems to be a 
corruption of the Persian word Giaur, by which they designate all those who profess a different re- 
ligion. They call the Russians, Sare-Giaur, or Sare-Guebr, i. e. light brown idolaters ; probably be- 
cause they observe fewer persons with black hair among them, than among the people of Asia. 



36 



BURTON S gentleman's MAGAZINE. 



This, indeed, has ceased ; but they still endeavor, as they used to do, to prevent the women from ap- 
proaching the sacred fire ; probably, tliat their presence may not divert their attention. 

In every thing that surrounds them, these monks are very neat and cleanly. They have no su- 
perfluity, but poverty is unknown among them. Their cells are likewise lighted by the subterraneous 
fire; which is easily extinguished by covering the vent through which the gas issues. The verdure 
of the garden on the other side of the court-yard of the temple, and the delightful shade of the trees, 
afford these hermits a refreshing coolness. If superstition finds, in the evanescent flame, an object 
of adoration, no inconsiderable advantage is derived from the naplha, which is so common here, and 
in the neighborhood, and yields to the ciown an annual revenue of 200,000 rubles. 



FOR WHOM IS THE MEED OF THY LOVE? 



Sat, lady, for whom is the meed of thy love. 

And the glance of thy languid eyes. 
Where beameth the soul of the sinless dove 
Ever gazing, at evening's hour, above 
Oa those of thy kindred skies I 

Is it for him whose fearless flight 

Is over the rolling sea — 
Who smiles on the storm, and braves the fight. 
And seeks, thro' the gloom of the wild-sea night, 

No beacon of love but thee 1 

Or is it for him whose warrior plume 

Is dabbled with crimson brine, — 
Who, thro' prairie battle and forest gloom. 
Wins laurels of bright immortal bloom 

To lay on thy beauty's shrine 1 

Or for him who holds the high debate 

In the nation's council hall, — 
Who, grasping at power and glory and state. 
Feels, deeply feels, that, tho' good and great. 

Thy guerdon is worth them all 1 

Is it for him who meets disease 

By palace or road-side cot — 
Who leaves his chamber of classic ease 
That the sigh, and the care, and the reckless breeze 

Of the world should reach thee not 1 

Or for him, who, full of Isaiah's fire, 

Tells of a holier sphere, 
Where seraph and saint and golden lyre 
Awaken the sweet celestial choir 

Inviting thy spirit there 1 

Or for him, the bard, who, by moonlight, strung 

His harp on lake or lea. 
While echo replied, as beauty sung, 
But who found, 'mid the fair, the gay, the young. 

No kindUng theme but thee 1 

Thus sang a young crusader, when the stars 
Of evening shone like gems on beauty's brow. 
The spirit of the night, in magic wrapp'd. 
Folded her wings to listen to the lay ; 



[ While, phrenzied with enjoyment, echo sprung 
From moss-grov/n couch, and breathed the spell- 
around ! 

To Zion's land, to free Christ's sepulchre, 
That youth withmarshall'd Christendom repair'd. 
Passion of soldier-fame, th' emblazon'd pomp 
Of Europe's multitudinous chivalry : 
Th' escutcheon'd banners thro' the royal camps j- 
The rich caparisoned steeds andjgallant knigh4&amp;, 
With silken scarf, worn in fair ladye's bower ; 
The spirit-stirring trump ; the onward charge, 
And all the blazonry of Crusade war. 
But sent liis pilgrim spirit back again 
To warm Italia's land of song and love^ 
And gentle Isabel's rewarding smilci. 

Absence is but love's life to faithful hearts, 
Which, as the tie that links two parted doves&gt; 
Vigor derive from distance. But the joy 
She fel: ia hearing how the banner cross 
Was, by Vincenzio, wav'd from Zion's walls. 
Refused her soul to contemplate the deed 
And yet outlive the rapture. 

She expired! 
******* 

A war-worn figure droops o'er yonder grave, 
Where streamlets, murmuring, glide and willows' 

wave. 
It is Vincenzio ! not the cavalier 
Whose victor-shout burst on the Paynim's ear. 
Or turned his lute to love for Isabel 
On moonlight lake or in romantic dell. 
No, but Vincenzio of the tearful heart, 
To which no Hope sweet balsam can impart ; 
Nightly he seeks that grave-spot, cold and deep. 
Where Death and Beauty in dark wedlock sleep ; 
And all the warmth that urged the warrior's brow 
Dwells there, alas, in furrowing rain-clouds now. 
Thus teaching us that love's the only light 
To guide us thro' this sublunary night ; 
And hope, with beacon smile, to shine afar 
On worlds whose joys no earthly ills can mar — 
Bright, mystic, pure, celestial realms of soul. 
The sage's wonder and the christians's goal. 
Philadelpha, Jan: 24th, 1839. SIGMA- 



THE PRIVATEER. 

A TALE OF THE LATE AMERICAN WAR, 



chapteh I. 



THE COUSINS 



It was a soft evening in May, 1812, when Catharine Harman, a laJy of noble bearing, and iffl 
perial beauty, was stioUing in a grove of oaks that ornamented the grounds of a mansion on' the 
banks of the Chesapeake. Far beyond the share of the most favored was the lovehness of the lady, 
and the fairest of her sex in her charming presence, might have wondered at nature's partiahty. 
Apparently the showers of but eighteen springs had freshened the bloom of her beauty, yet the next 
evening her twentieth birth-day was to be commemorated at the noble mansion of her family. 
Fairer than all the lover dreams of paradise was the exquisite symmetry of her person. The outline- 
was swelling round, and softly undulating as if finished by angels from heaven's rarest models. At 
rest, the matchless proportions were health and beauty deified ; but in motion, best was their won- 
derful loveliness developed. And her walk had the imposing dignity of the high dama nurtured in 
the olden courts of lady-love and troubadour, combined with the elegant, the tripping simplicity of a 
Hebe. She stepped — oh ! she floated, joyous and inspired, as if to the voluptuous melody of an Ita- 
lian opera ; and as her elegant figure, traced so faint, yet so roundly full, in a rich close robe of the 
times, swept the long grass, noiseless as the sailing albatross, and wound among the whispering trees 
as a virgin cloud from the court of the moon, a painter might have sketched the portrait of a celes- 
tial huntress alighting in her groves. Her ankle and foot — for ah ! there is a dangerous coquetry 
in a pretty foot — small, and charmingly shaped — the indispensable of womanly beauty — were 
barely seen ere they vanished in their mysterious ambush, as if one glance were enough to enchant. 
Her face ! alas ! the artist's finest touch were even Apollo the artist, could not breathe its passicii, 
its divinity ; to look on it were to wither the heart, and give memory immortality. It was not the 
cherubic laughingness of the playful girl, but the matured, the superb, and fascinating loveliness of 
the woman. 

Her complexion was that happiest union of color, seen only in female cheeks and in the pei-fec?- 
tion of painting — the softest blending of the lily and the rose — yet it rivalled the fairest lily or the 
richest rose. Her head was of splendid mould, and hex forehead high and queenly. A few shoit 
curls clustered like the locust flowers on its ravishing fairness ; and waving masses of dark brown 
hair, straying in ringlets from under a jewelled clasp, flung their wild profusion over a neck of snow, 
and a bosom whose faultless contour rivalled the proudest creations of the Grecian chisel, in whicfi 
nothing of beauty or grace is unfinished. That glossy, voluptuous hair, was like the luxuriant sea- 
grass in the mermaid's bower, floating over, yet slyly showing its virgin pearls. 

The jetty eyebrow was pencilled with the rainbow's curve; her lashes were long, black, and ex- 
quisite ; and there was that thrilling and mystic depth of soul in her lustrous black eyes which the 
flower of nature's nobility only have. By turns they were soft as the houri's glance — by turns they 
flashed as the moonlit-rill, or beamed with the still enthusiasm of the stars. Truly the eye is the 
mirror of woman, for its reflection is mystery ; even in sleep it has a spell we dare not trust. 

The nose was strictly Grecian — that classic inheritance of so many fair claimants ; the sunny, 
oval cheek vvas a delicious repose of blushes ; and the round superb chin, when drawn proudly up, 
was slightly doubled. But her scarlet lip of scented ripeness — ah ! there was a witchery there that 
mocks the power of pen. Even anger cannot rob a woman's lip of its magic, for in its pout there rs 
death to the young heart. In jo3'ous love, it is a cradle of smiles tempting an impassioned caress — 
a fount of delicious nectar intoxicating to sip — or rather it is the honeyed altar of passionate love. 
But in offended pride and bridling beauty, how ravishing its toss, its quiver ! The lips of the dan- 
gerous Catharine Harman wore the softest smile, the rosiest pout, the proudest cuil, and in their ver- 
milion shadow were arrayed a set of teeth whiter than the foam of the sea. 

The expression of her countenance was difficult to define. In pensiveness, it was poetry in its 
richest garb ; in animation, it copied the wave of the laughing lake ; and, again, it wore that lofty some- 
thing, that hauteur perhaps, that springs from a noble and cultivated intellect ; but at times its. 



38 burton's gentleman's magazine. 

wondrous meaning was as changeful and exhaustless as the picture of the cloud in the rippling 
spring. Her face was a gay masquerade of expression. 

A child of sorrow was this beautiful being — amiable as she was lovely, yet unfathomable in a 
passing acquaintance. Outwardly lively and dashing, she was one of that strange few who, when 
they list, can stand calm, dark, and unread under the scrutiny of the world, 

Grief has been said to exert a chastening influence, but some'imes it nurtures dangerous predis- 
positions — but of this again. At the age of fifteen, Catharine Harman had lost a sainted mother. 
Two years after, an only brother, led by that fever of travel and adventure so seducing to youth, had 
left his home, and been killed in a duel in a distant state. His blooming sister was left with but two 
relatives on earth — a passionate indulgent old father, and a portionless male cousin, two years her 
junior, who was avi-ay at college. 

The fair Kate Harman h id been brought up a pretty pet, which is to say that she was self-willed, 
though, like many pets, her heart was in the right place. The rose that flowers in a garden of 
weeds is the sweeter by contrast, for it is at once associated with some inherent excellence which 
defied neglect. So with the happy pet, whose innate goodness cannot be spoiled by parental indul- 
gence. By natural consequence of her rearing, Catharine was somewhat of a coquette. Start not ! 
nor cross thyself, guileless reader, for thou art generous, and coquettes are a much abused race. 
What a brilliant world of song and loveliness, of sighs and smiles, of tears and thrilling tones, of wild 
reproach, sweet repentance, and eloquent sorrow arc embodied in that single name of coquette ! At 
once the delighted fancy pictures a superb and accomplished female luxuriating in the " purple light 
of love." The very name implies beauty, talent, and amiability ; in that these alone win admiration, 
and by these only will gentlemen admit they are conquered. That wretched ambition, which pub- 
licly displays the peacock's feathers, is not the intoxicating play upon hearts of a beautiful and po- 
lished woman. The firat is the toy of vanity — the other, the innocent love of being loved — an evi- 
dence at once of overflowing kindness. This is the pleasing diflercnce between the painted flirt and 
the witching, glorious creature who coquettes from conscious nobleness — claiming homage as the 
prerogative of her heavenly nature. If her smile is a lure, (sure it is a pious fraud to lead mortals 
to heaven !) it honestly shows the gilded barb, and adoring man takes it with a rapture which 
breathes, " 'tis delicious to yield when angels tempt." Nothing in this world is half so harmless and 
unasking as love ; emotion so gentle and so gratuitous, cannot fiiil to awaken a regard in its object, 
thus bringing into play commendable exorcises of feehng. Females delight in the gentle charge of 
heartless coquette. 

Now, coquetry in a cottage proves at once that it is natural ; and, zounds ! who, in this christian 
age, will say that adored woman shall be rifled of her birthright 1 Rivalry is the soul of love, as 
jealousy is its test ; and tiie real lover of a dashing coquette feels a delicious uncertainty which 
teaches him truly to value her. He must be a happy man, who is loved by one of these captivating 
beings ; there must be — oh, there is — an intensity of devotion in the love that prefers him to the 
world of its choice. Vanity — than which no feeling is more slandered and more disinterested — 
shares the giddy triumph. To think that she is the queen of hearts, and he the queen's king ! Many 
may have heard the story of Oian al Bekar, who was the devil amongst women — a very prince of 
coquettes — and Zelirc, his queen. They reclined in a nuptial bower, and the prince whispered — 
" You are beautiful, Zelire, and love me ; I am happy, for all men envy me," and he kissed his de- 
lighted bride. " You love me, Oian," murmured she, "and I am happy, for all women envy me." 
Can a prospect of domestic felicity be more flattering 1 

To the belle in polished, or perhaps artificial society, coquetry is an armor of security — one of the 
acquired luxuries of society. Tears are a woman's weapons with her husband, sighs with her lover, 
but she must fight the cruel world with coquetry. There is less of the amiable weakness in the 
other sex, from lack of power ; for, alas, they all would if they could, and do as they can. Where, 
then, is the credit of good motives for its condemnation by gentlemen 1 Ladies seldom cast the 
charge on one another. 

Star-gazers may have seen before now a gay, innocent-looking cloud suddenly darken and shoot 
forth lightning which it seemed too gentle to have harbored. So it was sometimes with Catharine 
Harman, To look on her faultless face, one would have never thought it passion's throne, yet she 
had that flavor of prettiness called " temper." There is something " interesting," highly so, in the 
female of holy placidity of disposition — one whose spirit glides unruffled along the calm tide of the 
ocean of life, and floats into port without a gun or a flag. How sweet, how heavenly ! — yes, a little 
too much so for this world. That " interesting" is an equivocal compliment, at best. Give me the 
woman who has a leaven of mortality ; a spirited girl, who will bridle up and argue, for nothing is 
so surpassingly delightful as the making up of a lovers' quarrel. A lake, sheltered by mountains, is 
very pretty, and all that, in its sweet repose ; but w ho delights not more in the sea — the wild, ma- 
jestic, beautiful, and laughing sea — which also has its hours of bewitching rest 1 Oh ! the .spice of 
"variety ! 

Well, Catharine, in addition to the sin of coquetry, had tempei. Yet there was but one chord, 
waking but one tone, to but one touch. The untimely and mysterious end of her brother had 
wrought a perilous effect on her sensitive nature. Few feelings are so beautiful as a sister's love — 



THE PRIVATEER. 39 

trusting as the dove in kindness returned, and, like the dove, unmurmuring in neglect. Its influence 
is holy and lasting ; for kw brothers of amiable sisters are ever unkind to the sex. But this theme 
is for gifted pens. Catharine Harman had loved her brother Charles with an intensity equalled only 
by its return. At the restless age of eighteen he had left his paternal roof with a hard wrung con- 
sent, and the first news of his wanderings was that he had fallen in a duel at New Orleans. Mourn- 
ful is the grief for the wanderer whose eyes are closed by strangers' hands, for it has no consolation. 
It seems so hard to be robbed of the last look, the parting message, of those who are dear. Had 
his sister drunk his last sigh, and planted the willow on his youthful grave, tears had been a luxury ; 
but as it was, memory had no farewell look or word to cheer its melancholy. The glad stream that 
has been dammed across, is slow and silent, yet at some time it will burst the barrier that gave it 
strength. As Catharine brooded over her brother's death, a new and powerful passion crept over 
her young heart — an unyielding abhorrence of duelling and duellists. This strong and absorbing 
feeling lit up disdain in her glance, and lent her tongue the withering eloquence of passion at the 
name or sight of a duellist. Each blighting sarcasm was an expiation to the shade of her brother. 
At such moments, how different was she from the winning Catharine, the courteous and animated 
belle ■? 

Gifted, accomplished, and wealthy ; at home in the graceful dance, or waking the melody of Eu- 
terpe from her harp ; the light of the gay saloon, and the toast of the private circle ; it was not won- 
derful that this brilliant favorite of nature should exercise the dangerous power of her inheritance. 
Many a conquered youth had knelt impassioned at the shrine of her beauty, and thought himself 
blessed with a tear of pity. The rich and powerful had courted her alliance ; but, with the air of 
an empress, she answered, " My liberty is dearer than thou." 

But the fair Kate has been walking all this time in the grove by herself. She neared the skirt 
of the wood that sloped to a grassy bank, and flung its image on the tide. Leaning on the trunk 
of an ample oak, while the leaves of a pendent bough were wooing her lips and ringlets, she put on 
a poetical face, and gazed musingly on the water. 

The scene was brilliant and beautiful. Mysteriously charming it is to trace the landscape's sha- 
dow pencilled bright as its copy in the waveless tide. Fair earth is a vain baggage, and delights to 
take a peep at herself, as some pretty school giil, who carries a mirror in her bosom to dress her 
ringlets by. There, curiously inverted in that glorious bay, stood every quiet tree and yellow cliff, 
the setting sun, the anchored clouds, and the bandit fish-hawk watching still by his naked nest. It 
was nature sketching her own portrait from her looking glass. Far from the shore, hung dizzily be- 
tween two heavens, sat a slight pilot schooner, raking true to her own weblike outline, on which she 
rested keel to keel. Here and there a stout bay craft was dozing on the crimson couch, and a thin 
column of smoke curled up amidships. At the distance of a mile, a gay looking ship, the palace of 
the cabin-king, appeared dotted with painted ports, and her sails and colors hanging sleeping in 
their pride. The sailor's favorite lay, " the girl I left behind me," wandered from the rigging to the 
shore, plaintive as an unheard farewell. Far down, a long low point stole away into the channel, 
with its sentinel lighthouse stark at the end; and, beyond, the blue Chesapeake rolled his funeral 
tide till sky and sea were blended in the enchantment of distance. Around the embowered man- 
sion a profusion of trees flung the mingled shade of the classic elm, the collonaded poplar, the whis- 
pering locust, and the lordly oak. Rows of white outhouses glanced among the foliage ; and, around 
the neat negro quarters, troops of noisy young " tow heads" were gamboling with dogs of all de- 
grees. Near by, an orchard of choice and various fruit was sending an odorous tribute to the sky ; 
and a spacious garden on the southern wing, with its jetting fount, its silver rill, and vine-clad bow- 
er, its winding walks, and delicious shrubbery, spoke the culture of a refined and finished taste. 
From a flowering lawn to the bay, there stretched a beautiful grove of oaks, the play ground of a 
pair of fawns, and the favorite stroll of their lovely mistress. It was a striking and animated picture 
,of southern comfort and elegance. Over all, the setting sun brushed his burnished mantle, for he is 
a rare and skilful artist. The exquisite blending of ray and shade, the light in gay reUef, and the 
mystic tints of the far blue hills, are each and all his patent of matchless artistry. 

That flow of soft delight which lovely scenery awakens in the gifted mind, stole over the lady as 
the floating serenade of the lute, and she murmured, " it is beautiful." 

" The scene," answered a low and melodious voice, " is insipid, for beauty is by comparison. An 
angel is an angel only on earth, in heaven she is but a woman. This scene is dull, for its charms 
have fled to deck a fairer shrine. Nature is jealous of you, peerless Catharine, as your music master 
was when his fair pupil excelled him." 

A graceful foim of rounded eighteen was bending before her, and a sad and handsome face beamed 
upon the startled lady. She knew him not, and the stranger enjoyed her confusion with silent va- 
nity — for there is a singular delight in the incognito of one returning among his friends after an ab- 
sence of years. No youth, especially at such a time, can bear to be saluted with familiar recogni- 
tion. That careless " how are you] why you have not changed much," is chilling enough to the 
fancied unknown. A stare and a distant bow are the most subtle flattery- — for vanity reads in them 
a change of personal appearance — for the better of course. Thus it may have been in the present 
TPt. y. — \o. r. B 2. 



40 burton's gentleman's magazine. 

instance, and the youth looked at Catharine, as she thought, with provoking impudence — but then 
he was so handsome I 

"And I," again spoke the stranger, folding his aims, and bowing his head in eloquent melancho- 
ly, "have mused for years on that only balm of absence, remembrance of the loved, to find that I 
am forgotten. Would for his peace that Walter de Berrian were blessed with his cousin's forgetful- 
ness." 

" Walter, Walter ! my own dear cousin, I did not know you," exclaimed Catharine, quite taken 
by delightful surprife, as she extended her hand, and almost herself. In another moment she re- 
tired, sweetly confused, before the trembling and grateful gaze of the youth. iiThe easy belle was 
abashed, and theie was mischief in her soft confusion. The young man at her side was an orphan, 
tinder the guardianship of her father. Four yeais ago he left for college, a bashful stripling, whom 
his wild romping cousin had often kissed just to see him blush. She had read his letters, breathing 
a poetry of feeling which she could scarcely realize from the pen of the retiiing Walter. But Catha- 
line was flashing on her career of beauty and triumph, and seldom thought of her absent cousin, un- 
less with a wonder of ideal interest. He stood beside her now an elegant gentleman, with thought 
upon his brow, and soul in his sad black eye — her equal in knowledge and mind — for a moment the 
change embarrassed her. 

" Your hand only !" ejaculated the young De Berrian, in strangely musical tone, as the blushing 
lady drew back. " This is a cold meeting — a slander to our heart. Why, my cousin, if wc art glad 
to meet, should our joy be locked in this unmeaning shake? Why not lake counsel of our feelingsl" 

" I do," she answered, with a pretty curtesy. 

" We did not meet so once, Catharine, nor is this the greeting of kindred spirits — excuse me for 
complimenting myself." 

" Oh sir, since you are so disinterested, you are welcome to my share of the compliment. But 
•what of our meetings oncel I have'nt any memory ; you know when I used to climb that cliffyon- 
der for the flowers on its brink, while you were praying me to come down, I never looked behind, 
it made me giddy." 

"Ah it is true of all conquerors that they drown the cries of the wounded in the music of victory. 
But I meant, dearest cousin, that our hands formerly met after our lips — thinking they were safe in 
so innocent an example," returned Walter doubtfully. 

" Why then,'' answered the laughing belle, " you were a sly pretty boy, and I, a little woman, 
for I had already broken some dozen of hearts, and worn as many miniatures. But now you have 
grown so tall and handsome, with such meaning in your eyes — I — you would not have your cousin 
kiss a man"!" 

"No, loveliest girl! Never may that monster of beard and brutality wound my cousin's cherry 
lips. Reserve their dew and breath for the caress of thy softer sex and the warm touch of adoring 
boyhood. I am just eighteen," and, as the pleasing Walter spoke, his arm warily circled the round 
waist of the half-willing Catharine, and, amid slaps and stifled screams, he sought her averted lips. 
After a tantalizing chase, he snatched a lily hand from over the blushing fugitives, and printed upon 
them a long, delicious kiss. 

"How da:e you sir?" demanded Catharine, drawing up her pretty chin. 

"I am dying — my Ufe is the forfeit of my rashness." 

" See what you have made of my hair, you impudent boy !" she said with a fatal glance, as she 
shook out the disordered tresses. 

The youth stood as if he had suddenly waked in the bower of a Peri : and well might the exqui- 
site being before him have brought in question the reality of sight. The rich blood was planting 
roses in her superb cheeks, and through the splendid curls, that showered over hex face, he saw a 
pouting lip and a witching eye. 

" Saint Mary !" whispered De Berrian, as if he feared to frighten the vision, "what crime, fairest 
exile, did you commit in Heaven ?" 

" Theft sir," she returned with a penitent sigh. "It is my only fault; I stole Cupid's arrows." 

" Then it is no mystery that they never wound yourself," said Walter, recovering his mortality. 
" Fatal hirntress ! now that the stolen quiver is nearly empty, in that you have more heaux than ar- 
rows, you kill with the more deadly artillery of your eyes. Such is the boasted progress of refinement. 
Yet spare a triumph so poor as I ! Fire not from that murderous ambush again. The next glance 
■will read the treasured secret of years," and his head fell mournfully upon his bosom. 

" Oh ! is there a casket there that will hold a secret so long ? Give it to me, my own kind cou- 
sin, and I won't look death at you again," and she leaned imploringly on his arm. 

" It is yours, my adored Catharine," he murmured low and passionately, " I love you." 
" Love me ! I hope you do: I would not have a cousin that did not love me," She looked the 
sweetest surprise, and turned a demure face to the perplexed youth. 

"Roguish counterfeit, and ridiculous me !" thought he, "I must pretend innocence too. The 
surest lure for a butterfly is a painted rose." De Berrian had read much, seen much, and thought 
more. His fancy was rich, and his conversational powers of the first order. He adverted to the 
beautiful scenery aroimd them, and, insensibly, Catharine was drawn from her perfection of sim- 



THE PRIVATEER. 41 

plicity. Her gifted cousin was spieading a rare repast with a tasteful hand, and she partook with 
kindred enthusiasm. They descanted on the "beauties of nature," "painting," and " music," and 
wept over "poetry" and tlie "jp thetics." The cousins were shining in a new and dazzling hght. 
They were surprised at the extent of their powers, delighted with themselves, and with each other. 
Love, in the natural order of events, was the next theme, and they both seemed awaie of the law,, 
for Walter was trembling, and playing with hu unsuspecting little hand, and Catharine gave her 
head the ndke droop to one side, and looked delightfully simple, 

" To me," said Walter with a speculative air, " it is inscrutable that actions and feelings should 
contradict each other. In this I am unblest, for my tongue is the confidant of my heart, which, as 
with your sex, means, that it keeps secrets by calling in assistance. Now, m.y cousin, I love you — 
see how my tongue betrays its faith — do you love me.^" 

" Why what do you take me for, Walter 1 Do not the laws of Lsaven and earth command us to 
love our relatives]" 

" Why will you not understand mel" he asked, with a passionate vehemence. " My love, beau- 
tiful woman, is not that calm, unanxious instinct of kindred. (Dh ! it is the freshest dew of the soul 
falling on its favorite rose ! Catharine, we were children together, and the youngest tendril of the 
vine circles the nearest flower, and it never loosens its clasp for another." 

" Beautiful," she interrupted, with enthusiasm ; " but the vine grows, puts forth other tendrils, andr 
the youngest is first to decay, while the poor flower has long since perished in its withering clasp. 
Heaven save this frail flower from such keeping !" 

" They died faithfully together — an emblem " 

" But I don't want to die, dear, I'll tell you, skeptic — I named a wreath of flowers, " love," and 
threw it on the stream of isles in our garden. It floated gayly on, coquetting with every wave and 
bough, lingering a while on the golden sands of a flowered islet, and gliding away with a promise 
to come back A fairer spot was ever in view — some far sweet isle, in the majesty of distance, 
wi'ched the loitering voyager along, till the poor withered thing of vanity was stranded on a bub- 
ble. First love may be sincere while it lasts, but the same beauties of person and mind, by the 
same impulse, will charm in another. Absence conqueis love by love's own weapons." 

"Thank you, sweet coz, for the lesson you leach; for, since my idol is the fairest and best, my 
faith will never be tempted." 

" Mine is not equally guarded," she rejoined laughing, " or rather I never loved. I don't believe 
in that lisping romance of the nursery. I have frailties enough." 

" Frailties!" said De Berrian shoitly." I cannot understand that senseless afTectation which can 
name the noblest passion in the gift of heaven a frailty. Yet listen, Catharine," he softened as he 
lip put on its haughtiness, " I know that you are kind and gentle as your fawns, for the child ne^ 
ver forgets the playmate of his cradle. Your bosom thrills with sympathy at the tale of sorrow, and 
that liquid eye is lit with heaven's light when virtue triumphs. Surely love would sue to nestle in 
a heart like yours. Ah! there is a remembrance, sweet with the fragiance of other years, which 
bids me speak. Here, under these trees, we have woven the blue hare-bells together, and you have 
sportingly kissed me ! O then, even then, I could have held your soft sweet lips to mine, and wished 
that moment eternity. Then I learned to adore you, and if there is one feeling unmixed with self, 
one trait that hallows frailty, it is the delicious love of early years, which blooms and smiles when 
the head is white, and the eye rayless. From birth my nature named you happiness, my honor was 
woven with you as glory, and my young ambition saw in you its heaven. Mine is the love that 
loves but once, and mine I offer thee." 

" Thank you," answered the beauty, in a rapture of modesty. " How proud I am of my cousin— 
so eloquent, so tender. I am in torment to show my triumph." 

" Is this your answer 1" demanded Walter, hastily, 

" What is the question, sir 1" 

" Do you love me 1" 

" That's not fair," she returned, sweetly ; " do you love we?" 

" Oh ! devotedly, my first and fairest," and he caught her hand, 

" Not so fast," she exclaimed, pretending surprise ; " the first flowers of spring are fairest and 
frailest, too. Your ofl'er is painful and unexpected ; speak of it no more." 

Yet Catharine felt proud, gratified at his long cherished aflfection, which, as a romping, teazin^ 
girl, she had slyly seen in a thousand adoring looks and silent rambles. As a lovely and winning 
belle, there lingered amid all her giddy triumphs a tender interest for her pensive cousin. His love 
she felt was a feeling tribute to her worth, and then he was a proud and portionless orphan. But 
it would never do that the hunted coquette should be won so easily. She would not admit to her- 
self that she loved him ; yet, as she stole a look at his faultless figure and handsome face, eloquent 
with vexation and disappointment, something whispered—" If ever I should love, my noble cousia 
will be the happy raa.n," 

To be eontinued.J 



THEY CALL ME COLD AND PASSIONLESS 



Thet call me cold and passionless — ah ! little do they know 
How deep and strong the cuirenl is that silently doth flow ; 
The babbling brook and rivulet in noisy murmurs plash, 
And loud the mountain torrent's heard from rocky height to dash ; 
But plainly are the pebbles seen those streamlets murmur o'er, 
And soon is dried the rocky bed whence broke that torrent's roar. 

But give to me — for unison itholdeth with my soul — 

The rivei's calm and noiseless, yet never ceasing roll ; 

The proudly firm and onward pour of waters on their course, 

Alike unchecked by luring smiles, as unrestrained by force, 

That kisses now the flovv'ery bank, the drooping willow steeps, 

Unchanged then past the castle's base, through frowning ravine sweeps. 

They call me cold and passionless — ah ! little can they tell 
Beneath the mountain's cheerless side how many a spring may well, 
Whose sweet refreshing waters, found by some divining rod. 
Gush up to cool the parched brow, make glad the valley sod 
Give nurture to the wa\ing grove, and blooming fragrance spread 
Aiound the path that beauty loves at even tide to tread. 

How many a flower of loveliness by nature's left alone, 

To add its sweetness to the air, from yonder cliff's high throne ; 

How many a gem of brilliancy, new lustre that would give 

To kingly crown or diadem, in cavern dim doth live, 

And waiteth but to answer back the torch's intruding ray, 

Or flash and sparkle in the full and glowing blaze of day. 

They call me cold and passionless — because I will not bow 

At beauty's shrine the stubborn knee, nor veil the careless brow ; 

Because my heart no altar is, whereon to sacrifice 

To every lip where wreathed in smiles a subtle Cupid Ues, 

To every eye from which may gleam a passion-kindled glance. 

To every form that gi-aceful floats adown the mazy dance. 

Yet can I worship Woman with intensity of one 

Who feels her power, and boweth as the heathen to the sun — 

Who knows that life would be a cold, a dark and dreary night, 

But that her smiles are round him warm — her presence ever bright; — 

Who feels his soul would be like some unstrung and silent lyre, 

Did not her breath awake its tones and every note inspire. 

They call me cold and passionless — because they cannot read 

In every changing lineament the foreshade of each deed ; 

Because the burning feelings that my inmost bosom fill — 

The thoughts that glow within my breast, in every heart gush thrill — 

Do not, in outward form and look, their secrets stern enrol. 

While he that runneth by may read — a light emblazoned scroll. 

And yet my soul resembles oft some cavern hidden deep 
Beneath the calm and careless earth, where pent up thundefs leap, 
Where passion's bubbling lava boils and hisses in its rage. 
Where lightnings whirl in fearful dance, and fires volcanic wage 
A fretful war against the chains too firmly that do bind. 

And hold their chafing elements obedient to the mind ! E. Gt K. 

Philadelphia, May I4tb, 1839. 



ROMANCE OF AMERICAN HISTORY 



BT VARIOUS ATTHORS. 



PONTIAC, THE OTTAWA 

AN INDIAN TALE. 



MILTOX SAIfBERS. 



CHAPTER I. 

" CuESE the pale faces !" exclaimed a tall Indian who stood upon a ledge of rocks which jutted 
over a dark ravine, down which the mountain current whirled with the rapidity of an arrow, sound- 
ing like the deep and dull rumbling of distant thunder, and throwing up the spray in hazy wreaths 
which almost reached the ledge upon which the Indians stood. 

" Curse the pale faces ! dost thou think I can be subdued by the cubs whose dams I prostrated 
at my feet !" He who spoke was a tall Indian of a herculean mould, with a high and expansive 
forehead, and a pair of dark eyes, which glistened like the mountam tiger's as he spoke. His fea- 
tures were sharp and sternly set, while his shaggy eyebrows were natm-ally drawn down over his 
eyes, which gave to his features an ascetic expression not very prepossessing. The Indian to whom 
he addressed the expression, was a small man, with a narrow receding forehead, dark fieiy eyes, and 
a countenance the unnatural distortions of which, when he spoke, would lead a physiognomist into 
the mdubitable belief that this delectable individual might be one of that number whose qualms of 
conscience for evil deeds might be too frequent. The large Indian gritted his teeth as he finished 
speaking, and brandished his tomahawk towards fort Duquesne with a fearful vigor, which, with the 
dark scowl upon his face, caused the smaller Indian to recoil with fear. 

" 'Tis even so," at length spoke the latter, in a dry guttural voice. " The cubs have grown in 
strength, till they have risen to sweep us from the earth ; already have they encroached into our 
hunting grounds, and om- game is daily becoming less beneath their fiery weapons." 

" Let them grow ! the taller the tree grows, the easier 'tis blown dowTi by the wind," said 
Pontiac, (for it was he,) who gazed so intently in the direction of fort Duquesne, as not to observe 
the countenance of the dwarf Pishairo, which assumed a sinister smile, while his small bright eyes 
glittered like the enraged snake when he watches in the grass for his prey. " 'Tis said the pale war- 
rior would wed the daughter of Pontiac ; has the news yet reached the ear of ovur sachem 1" 

" The sachem glared upon the dwarf as if he wonld fathom his inmost thoughts, while the 
bitter smile which had spread over his features suddenly passed off, and a demure composure was 
the only expression observable. " Hast thou been among the pale faces contrary to my wishes 1 if 
so, better hadst thou be a snake than Pishairo," said the chief sternly through his clenched teeth, as 
he continued gazing upon the countenance of the dwarf. " Speak ! how comest thou by this idle 
talk, which would better become one of thy own kind than me V 

" I have sought thee, Pontiac, for my breast is burdened with news. Listen ! As the sun was 
sinking behind the mountain, and ere the birds had ceased their warbling, I beheld the pale face in 
his canoe, which he plied silently, scarcely disturbing the dark shadows in the waters as he passed ; 
he landed, and with the stealthiness of the wild cat, when he crawls upon his prey, mounted he the 
green bank which rises by thy mountain wigwam ; he gained the top — a low cry, and thy dark-eyed 
daughter " 

The fierce sachem sprang upon his feet, and fixing his fiery eyes upon the dwarf, drew back 



44 burton's gentleman's magazine. 

his long spear, as if in tHe act of hurling it, while the informant crouched clo^r to th rock beneath 
which he sat. 

" When the Ottawa sachem discovers Pishairo's tongue forked lUie the subtle snake's, then let 
him strike the base blood from his heart," and the dwarf laid his hand upon his bosom, and gazed 
steadfastly upon the chief, who, after scrutinizmg his countenance, which was as expressionless as 
the cold marble, exclaimed in a voice of passion, " None of the pure blood of Pontiac shall mingle 
with the base blood of the pale face, unless it be in the struggle for life and death. I have said it ! 
Curse the white race ! Were I the father of a thousand daughters, whose eyes were as dark as the 
night, and whose hair were as beautiful as the raven's plumage, I would lay them all upon the dust 
and mingle their blood with the dirt ere it should mingle with that cursed race ! I will stand in 
their path, and stop their journey, or, upon the bones of my forefathers, perish," and the chief shook 
his spear with vehemence towards the dwarf. 

" These were words of truth," assented the small man, who still lay close to the rock, 

" Pishairo speak," said the sachem in a peremptory tone, which was not to be disobeyed. 

"The daughter of the Ottawa sachem gazed into the eyes of the pale face with those of the dove, 
and her voice was as soft as the nightingale when he sings to his love, as she whispered in a low 
voice, which reached my ear,' Thy canoe did not darken the waters last setting sun ; no ripple came 
to the shore from thy paddle; has the daughter of the Ottawa sachem grown cold in thine eye 1' 
Then spoke the pale faced chief, and his voice was like unto the silvery tones of the dark-eyed maiden, 
' The pale face loves the Ottawa maiden, but not for her lands — 'tis the maiden he wants, and he 
•would take her from this dreary forest to the bright land of his people— would the red maiden fol- 
low her pale lover 1' and he placed around her neck a chain made from the bright metal, as he drank 
from her glowing eyes the confession that she would be his own. In a mellow voice he bade her 
meet him at the next setting sun, and then his canoe went its noiseless way and soon disappeared ; 
these are not forked words." 

The eyes of the chief flashed fire, he gritted his teeth, and clenched his spear with the power of 
a vice, but, with that tact peculiar to him, covered the fury which raged within him under features 
which indicated nothing more to an observer than their usual stern and determined expression. He 
strode off, and the features of the dwarf again assumed their usual cunning and sinister expression. 
The haughty Ottawa sachem had beheld with a jealous eye the daily encroachments of the white 
race upon the lands owned by his tribe. His foresight told him that the power which a while pre- 
viously was unlimited among the tribes, was daily becoming weaker — and he already viewed, in an- 
ticipation, the whites as masters of the land of his ancestors, unless he adopted vigorous measures to 
drive them from it ere they increased to such numbers as would render futile all his attempts to ex- 
pel them. Already had his name ceased to create that electric effect which it was wont ere the 
whites came to the country, and he determined, with one sanguinary blow, to regain that mighty 
influence which he had lost. He was determined that his voice should again be heard with rever- 
ence at the council fire, and that, v\hen in his absence, his belt should summon a host of warriors 
to his standard, as it formerly did in the days of his glory. It is seldom we see one possessing power 
once, when levelled to the common standard of a private individual, who is willing to remain so ; 
but with the never-tiring and never-quietted passion ci'iilidon continually spurring him on, he is 
never satisfied, never at ease, but unceasingly engaged in plotting and counterplotting for the prize 
which can never be reached, till at last he expires, a victim to the passion which bums alike in the 
breast of the savage and the king. 

Pontiac still possessed unlimited sway over his own nation — yet the influence of the whites was 
also felt among his own tribe ; they did not obey his wishes with the same alacrity as previous to 
the appearance of the whites on their soil. The dwarf, who belonged to the Peoria nation, whom 
the warlike Ottawas had conquered and reduced to slavery, was a soi-disant chief: but the fate of 
war had not only reduced him to a private individual, but also to a slave, in which capacity he 
served under the Ottawa sachem ; which, after all, was more compatible with his talent than his for- 
mer station, which was an hereditary gift. Love and jealousy are passions which rage in a savage 
with more energy than in a refined bieast, and these were at this time the two predominant passions 
of Pishairo. He had seen Pontiac's beautiful daughter, and to see was to love; he had gazed upon 
her till he was intoxicated with her charms ; long and ardently had he watched her expanding wo- 
manhood, and, like the rose bud, so beautiful at first, now that she had expanded to maturity, ap- 
peared more lovely still. This amiable lover had beheld the meeting of the preceding evening, and 
inflamed wiih jealousy, he sought the chief, whose irritable disposition he knew could be easily 
fanned into a flame, particularly when the subject was the white aggressors. His object for com- 
municating this intelligence was the reverse of what the chief supposed it, who imagined he had 
Mad the countenance of the dwarf. 



PONTIAC, THE OTTAWA. 45 

CHAPTER II. 

As the trees were gilded with the last rays of the declining sun, a canoe silently glided towards 
the bank upon which stood the wigwam of the Ottawa chief. The person who sat in it, and noise- 
lessly plied the paddle, appeared to be aware of his proximity to the hunting ground of the Ottawas, 
by the many anxious looks which he directed to every tangled coppice which he passed. After re- 
viewing well the woods from the middle of the stream, he turned the prow towards the shore, and 
with one or two dips of his paddle, the canoe bounded to the land ; he sprang out, and drawing it 
farther upon the bank, stealthily walked up the hill, observing to examine the priming of his pis- 
tols, which he carried in his belt, previous to commencing the ascent. He gained the top, and 
■whistling softly, beheld the Ottawa maiden advancing from the direction of her father's wigwam. 
At this moment an Indian stepped from behind a tree near the white man. 

" Ah, Pishairo, thou art here agreeably to thy promise," exclaimed the white man, as he grasped 
the Indian's hand, " and thou hast talked with the sachem's daughter — how can I reward thee 1" 

" Reward !" exclaimed the dwarf, as his features assumed the sardonic expression peculiar to 
them when he was over excited. " Thinkest thou a Peoria sachem asks reward 1 he takes it." 

" This language is enigmatical ; explain thyself, warrior," said the white man, whose face slightly 
reddened. " How couldst thou take thy reward unless I chose to give it ?" 

The dwarf burst out into a hysterical laugh. " Does the eagle ask the hawk for his prey "? No ! 
he pounces upon him and takes him" — and the dwarf walked off laughing immoderately. 

The white man gazed after him, but the Indian maiden was in his arms ere he could give vent 
to an expression of anger. He impiinted a kiss on her forehead, and his eyes immediately lost their 
expression of angei with which he gazed at the dwarf. 

" Is the Ottawa maiden ready to go to the land of the white man's people 1" 
The girl hung her head, and then looking him in the face with eyes beaming love, she answered, 
" The Ottawa maiden is ready to leave her people, and follow her white warrior to his bright land." 

" Then we will hasten ere '' and turning around, the white man beheld himself surrounded 

with Indians, who stood as many as the trees. He seized the maiden with the left hand, and with his 
light drew a pistol, which he discharged at the nearest Indian ; they rushed on him, but with his 
knife, which he brandished in the air with herculean strength, he kept the wairiors at bay, and 
slowly retreated towards the boat ; thiice did they rush up, and thrice did he repel them ; but finally 
he was overpowered by the savages, thrown upon the ground, and bound. The maiden was led to 
her lodge, and the while man borne to the densest part of the woods, where were erected the tents 
of the warriors. He was taken to a spacious tent, in which sat Pontiac and all of his oldest chiefs. 
A low guttmal interjection from each man as he passed, indicated their knowledge of his capture ; 
and then all were as silent and motionless as statues. The sachem motioned with his hand, and 
the white man was untied, and stood amongst them. The chief arose to address him, and from a 
spark of joy which appeared to twinkle in his eyes, it was evident he was striving to master feelings 
of exultation, which were so intense as almost to overcome him. The white man folded his 
arms, and looked steadfastly in the eyes of Pontiac as he spoke ; and from the fearless man- 
ner in which he bore himself, it was evident that he could be no uncommon person. The 'sa- 
chem spoke slowly and distinctly, and his words embodied that sarcasm which strikes to the soul of 
the addressed. 

" White man, listen ! The red man and the white man were friends ; they sat at the same coun- 
cil fire, and they slept upon the same blanket ; they walked the same path, and they smoked to- 
gether the same pipe ; they ate of the same venison, and there was peace ! White man, listen ! Ye 
grew in strength, (for then ye were weak) till, like the tall oak, ye fain would spread youi branches 
over the other trees, to guard them from the stoim ; ye are now grown high, but beware ! — none 
but the tallest trees are stricken by the fire of the clouds. (Every warrior grunted a commendation.) 
Ye grew in strength till the land which you hunted upon grew small in your eyes, and then ye 
would have ours. Ye taught our young warriors to drink the fire water, which drove them mad, and 
they were no longer warriors. Is this all ■? No ! Not content with oui lands, ye would steal upon 
our hunting grounds to carry off our daughter; what does the paleface merit?" The sachem's 
eyes twinkled like two stars as he gazed around upon the rows of warriors. 

" Curse the wild cat ! he would prey upon his red brothers," said a clear eyed old warrior, whose 
scalp lock was blanched with years. 

" And merits burning at the stake," said another, whose loclis were no less white. 
"And his bones cast to the dogs — curse him!" exclaimed a third. 

" Curse him !'' reiterated the rest in a low tone, as they involuntarily tightened their grasps 
around their tomahawk handles — " can the white chief find his tongue 1" 

The prisoner already knew of the mighty scheme against the whites which the sachem wag pro- 
jecting by his dutiful slave Pishairo, and he felt that his only chance for life would be to obtain, if 
possible, a protraction of his execution. He spoke firmly and frankly, and admitted what they aU 
leady suspected. There was no cringing beneath the stern and steady gaze of Pontiac, but he threw 



46 burton's gentleman's magazine. 

it back by one equally stern and defying ; he spoke with powerful energy, for he was pleading for 
life; he described in glowing colors the impression the first sight of his daughter had upon him, and 
that he was resolved to wed her in order to cement the bonds of friendship firmer between the white 
and red men, 

A demoniacal smile spread over the features of the sachem when the white man had finished speak- 
ing ; he drew himself up to his full height, and fiercely demanded the war club — should be passed 
around, which was soon done, and it was decided that the prisoner should be burned at the stake the 
following morning. He was taken to a wigwam and firmly bound, and four lynx-eyed warriors 
were stationed over him, who had mingled their blood, and swore to take the life of any one of 
their number who should be so unfortunate as to fall asleep. 

The prisoner was the young commander of Fort Duquesne, who had a short time previous left 
his native country, buoyant with hope, but in an unlucky moment beheld the pretty Indian maid- 
en, whose native charms captivated him. None of the Indians were aware of the rank of their pri- 
soner save Pontiac, and a very few of the veteran chiefs and warriors, who were all anxious for his 
death, more that the news might intimidate the soldiers of the fort, than for the heinousness of the 
crime of striving to steal a girl. 

About midnight, a messenger stood before the lodge of Pishairo, who was tossing about on his 
blanket, a prey to the burning thoughts which tortured his brain. The Indian tore away the rude 
screen from before the place of entrance, and bade the dwarf arise and proceed to the council house, 
whither he repaired instantly. Pontiac sat at the farther end of the house, and at each side of him 
four chiefs, whose hair were snowy with age, and like all grave counsellors, when on duty, they sat 
stem and motionless, with the exception of their lips, which slightly moved as the smoke from them 
curled in thick wreaths over their heads. 

"Pishairo!" The dwarf stood motionless, in a listening attitude. 

" Pishairo has his ears sharpened," said he, in a firm tone. 

" Listen," said the sachem ; " travel with the wings of the dove to fort Duquesne, and bear its 
commanding chief this belt ; look upon it ! 'tis a broad one ! the wampum is red. It speaks of 
war ! Tell him the red men would have him leave his fort, and march his men from our soil ere to- 
morrow's sun climbs the sky, or their great chief, who is our prisoner, shall be burned at the stake. 
Listen ! tell him the red warriors await his answer, in numbers as many as the leaves upon the 
trees — hasten." 

The aged chiefs granted an assent ; the dvrarf received the belt and departed. Ere he had pro- 
ceeded half a mile, a messenger overtook him, with orders from the sapient council to return. The 
dwaif measured the distance to the council house, and then turned back, and his eyes assumed a 
diabolical expression, and his eyes rolled with rage. The chiefs still occupied their seats, and ap- 
peared to take no farther notice of his return than by puffing larger volumes of smoke from their 
lips. Pontiac fixed his eyes upon the dwarf's countenance, and the gaze appeared to read the in- 
most thoughts which worked so wildly and energetically in his breast ; his own countenance was 
as unmoved and expressionless as if he slept. 

" Will the panther degrade himself and be a fox 1" at length the sachem thundered out. 

The dwarf laid his hand on his heart, and then throwing out his arms, exclaimed, " If the Ottawa 
sachem thinks the panther could be a fox, let him treat him as one." 

" Fidehty lurks not in the fox, yet it is with the Peoria warrior, said an old counsellor. 

" Methinks Pishairo is no snake," grumbled another. 

A writhing smile played upon the sachem's face, as he respectfully nodded to the old men who 
spoke, and bade the dwarf depart, nor tarry on his way. 



CHAPTER III. 

By day-break next morning, the warriors of the surrounding tribes poured in from all directions, 
till the woods were filled with them. The large council house was occupied by the old men, while 
the young warriors went through their war dance, and excited each other's passions with songs of 
the white aggressors, and tales of their own chivalrous feats. At the council, the Ottawa sachem 
exerted his talents with the most skilful success. With a profound knowledge of the character of 
the members of the several tribes who sat before him, he spoke words which, to them, were as fire ; 
nothing was left unsaid to arouse their passions against the whites. With oratorical powers, which 
could not be commanded by a white man, and an energy of gesture, which was natural, he painted 
in vivid colors to their imaginations, the usurpations of the white race since their arrival on the soil; 
how they had taken possession of their hunting grounds, and destroyed their game, and finally tried 
to steal away their children to make them slaves. He appealed to their prejudices and to their pas- 
sions ; and to render them more sanguine of success, promised them the assistance of the Great 
Spirit, who, he said, had visited him in a dream, and declared he would assist their cause, which was 
the holy one of freedom. The old waniors grasped their weapons, and, with suppressed interjections 



PONTIAC, THE OTTAWA. 47 

of rage, shook them in the air. During this excitement a small man entered, and took his way 
through the rows of warriors, till he stood before the orator. It was Pishairo ; he bore on the point 
of a long pole the war belt which he had received of Pontiac the previous evening; it was stripped 
of all its wampum, and was bare ! The sachem snatched it from the pole, and held it before the ex- 
cited members of the council, while his countenance was distorted with passion. The effect was in- 
stantaneous; the whole council arose with one burst of rage, and rushed out of the door, followed 
by Pontiac, who tore the belt to a thousand pieces, as he strode after them. The young warriors 
deserted the painted pole around which they danced, and with a wild yell crowded forward at the 
heels of the host which rushed forward with the irresistible impetus of the mountain torrent. They 
arrived at the wigvi^am where the prisoner lay, which they tore to pieces, and unbinding him, they 
bore him to the stake amid the deafening yells of the young warriors, while hundreds crowded in 
with arms full of dry faggots. The white man tried to speak, but his voice wSs drowned amid the 
loud curses of his enemies, whose fists and spear handles w-ere as busy as their tongues. His clothes 
were instantly torn from him in rags, and his body was painted black ; a buffalo thong was tied 
around his neck, and fastened to the stake, leaving a line long enough for him to move freely. The 
faggots were piled around at the distance of six feet, and a warrior stood with a torch to light them, 
when a shrill cry was heard, and the daughter of Pontiac sprang over the dry wood, and threw her- 
self upon the breast of her lover, which she clung to as a drowning man to a straw. The warriors 
looked upon this sight, which was so suddenly and unexpectedly presented them, with astonish- 
ment ; but there was no gaze of pity mingled with those looks — no compassion for her distress ; 
they curled their lips with rage, which soon broke out in yells of impatience. Pontiac drew back a 
moment with surprise, and then, with the fury of a demon, he grasped his tomahawk, and rushed 
upon his daughter to dash out her brains, when his arm was caught by Pishairo, the violent and se- 
cret lover of the maiden. With a thundering exclamation of contempt, the sachem seized the dwarf, 
as if he had been the smallest infant, and hurled him far over the heads of the warriors. The In- 
dian sprang upon his feet, and stung with rage, rushed at Pontiac, whom he reached in time to sus- 
pend a second blow, when a famous chief of another tribe interfered, and saved the life of the 
maiden. She was torn from the prisoner, and borne back to her wigwam ; the faggots were fired, 
and the dreadful work commenced. At this moment, a discharge of rifles burst upon the astonished 
warriors, and many of them were laid low with the dead ; but the rest, v.ho were excited to phren- 
zy, fought like lions. Before the English could load their guns, the Indians, led by Pontiac, were 
among them with the dreadful tomaliawk, which they wielded with their usual force and success. 
The battle was now hand to hand, and each man was engaged in a struggle which was for life or 
death. During this time, the Indian maiden rushed through the burning faggots and cut the cord 
which bound her lover, who joined his people, nov/ losing ground beneath the desperation of the In- 
dians. Long and deadly was the contest, but finally the' whites were forced to give way before the 
fury of the savages. They retreated with tolerable order, under the example of their naked and 
blackened commander, who had lost none of his bi avery with his clothes. They regained their boats, 
and after striving once more to gain an advantage, without success, paddled ofl', followed by the 
curses of the warriors, whose rage was none appeased b}' being deprived of the consoling sight of a 
prisoner burnt at the stake. Pontiac mounted a log, and in a few moments succeeded in fanning 
their already excited passions to a furious flame, and then the whole savage host marched for Fort 
Duquesne, as the exciting war song, from a thousand voices, swelled upon the air. 



CHAPTER IV. 

Among the warriors was a Chippewa chief, named Minavana, gifted with a powerful eloquence, 
which, with an indomitable disposition, rendered him a formidable rival of the Ottawa sachem. The 
Chippewas were at that time the strongest, with the single exception of the Oltawas, of the tribes 
inhabiting that vast wilderness stretching between the lakes and the Ohio river. This chief beheld, 
with a jealous eye, the ascending influence of the Ottawa sachem, whose power he iinagined was on 
the ebb, and with all the secret intrigue which he possessed, caballed against Pontiac. But these 
intrigues did not escape the wily sachem's notice, who, by means of some of the Chippewa's own 
warriors, received daily information of the progress of his plots. 

The sun was high in the heavens, when the host of warriors reached a ravine, formed by a moun- 
tain torrent, which, for ages, had rolled down the path. Here they encamped for the night, and af- 
ter placing sentinels around the neighborhood of the camps, the Ottawa sachein took his spear, and 
strode up the mountain side. He went alone — there was no human being to whom he could com- 
municate his secret projects, for there was no red man whose mind appeared to him gigantic enough 
to share his ambitious schemes. He strode up the mountain, looking upon either side, as he held 
his spear ready to strike into any of the wild animals, which, at that time, inhabited the mountain- 
ous countries in great numbers. The sun was now sinking behind a bed of clouds at the far west_ 
the birds were singing their evening songs ; the wind was lulled to sleep, and even the stern sa' 



48 burton's gentleman's magazine. 

chem's breast was influenced by the repose around him ; his fierce spirit was calmed, and as he sat 
on a high rock, overlooking the whole country, he reasoned dispassionately on the probable chance 
of his succeeding in his bold design of driving the whites from his country. " Then again," said he, 
" will I be the sole king of this broad and blooming hunting ground : there will be no white men to 
teach our warriors cowardice, nor to create dissatisfaction among our young men. All will be as it 
were in the olden times ere the pale faces visited our shores ; and when the sachem's runners were 
not treated with contempt." 'J'he sachem's voice sank lower, but he was so absorbed in his ambi- 
tious thoughts, as not to observe two individuals who stood upon a rock just above him. They 
gazed eagerly upon him, and then spoke earnebtly, but in a tone sufficiently low as not to reach the 
ear of the dreaded chief. The smaller warrior, who was the dwarf Pishairo, stealthily disappeared 
behind the rock ; the other, who was the Chippewa sachem Minavana, made a noise which attracted 
the attention of Pontiac, and then appeared to be looking in another direction, apparently uncon- 
scious of his proximity to the Ottawa. 

" The Chippewa sachem is a panther in the fight," said Pontiac, in a tone of commendation. 

The Chippewa turned around, and, apparently surprised, saluted the sachem Vv'ith dignity and 
marked respect. 

" Would the sapient Pontiac practice his spesr upoii the heart of the bloody panther ere he plants 
it in the white man's 1" said the Chippewa, with a deferential inclination of the head, as he strode 
to the rock upon which sat the Ottawa. " I have sought thee eagerly ; the pale face warriors are 
upon our grounds, and our young warriors pant for battle — they want Pontiac." 

The Ottawa sprang to his feet, and followed Minavana. They wound their way around huge 
rocks — now upon the edge of a frowning precipice, where one false step would hurl them to atoms, 
and then at the bottom, where rocks rose above them, like the towers of some tremendous castle ; 
but they trod their way with a precision which could not be learned but by one who had spent years 
among the mountains. They finally reached a deep ravine, half way to the encampment of the In- 
dian army. The rocks rose high on each side, leaving a space between them of but a few feet. The 
Ottawa walked some distance before, wholly occupied in anticipating the battle, in which he hoped 
to be a formidable participator; while walking, he heard a voice, and turning around, the Chippewa 
chief was no where to be seen ; but in the gloom of the evening, he beheld a party of his warriors, 
armed alone with knives; they slowly advanced, dispersing, apparently with a view of taking him 
alive. The Ottawa hurled his spear in the breast of one, and, with his war cry, attacked them witli 
a fury which was irresistible ; he broke through them, and leaving four of their number dead, bound- 
ed down the mountain side; a shrill yell before him, by its peculiar tone, informed him a Chippewa 
was near ; he drew his knife, aud bounded forward — the sachem Minavana stood before him, 

" Curse thy false heart, Chippewa, thou art a squaw !" and with one jump, they stood facing each 
other, their eyes gleaming hate, and their lips curled with the scorn with which they pretended to 
view each other. 

" Thou art but a little girl, Ottawa, when the Chippewa sachem stands before thee," and with 
these approbious epithets, they fought with fury. Their physical powers were well matched, but 
the dread in which the Chippewa held Pontiac, might have weakened his energies, and he appeared 
to quail beneath the glare of the Ottawa's eye ; but he fought with the desperation which his situ- 
ation required. They were now locked in each other's firm embrace, and, after writhing awhile, 
they fell from the rock upon which they fought, upon a ledge a few feet below. They sprung upon 
their feet, and stood a moment to regain energy for their last struggle. They viewed each other 
with gestures of scorn. 

" The Ottawa squaw can't fight — his arms are too weak," panted the Chippewa in a contemp- 
tuous tone, while he knew he had been worsted in the scuffle. 

" The Chippewa is a fox, he is unworthy to live among warriors," oiied the other, and with 
drawn knives they again rushed' at each other ; and the Chippewa, who was the most excited by the 
other's taunting language, threw himself off his guard, and received the Ottawa's knife, which pene- 
trated to his heart. Pontiac tore from his head the scalp, and went his way to the camp. The war 
song rang upon his ear, and the young warriors were dancing around the painted war pole, while 
the old men had already assembled in the council house, and with impatience awaited the presence 
of their sachems. Pontiac entered with the reeking scalp of Minavana in his hand ; he took his sta- 
tion at the head of the council house, and held up before them the scalp, from which yet dropped 
the warm blood. The house was now full to overflowing ; the young warriors had ceased their 
dance, and repaired to the council en masse to hear of the next day's operation ; every wigwam was 
deserted, and all the warriors choked up that spacious yet temporary house, till there was not room 
for one more spectator. With his usual strength of voice, the Ottawa sachem recounted to the listen- 
ing multitude the manner in which he had procured the scalp he held before them. In the most 
glowing colors he depicted to them the struggle he had to save his life, which he declared was va- 
lueless to himself, but of infinite value to his nation at this critical moment. He shook the scalp in 
the air, and called upon his people to revenge the attempt upon his life, which he assured them was 
only the beginning of a long concocted plot to undermine the power of his nation, and build up ano- 
ther on its ruins. His eloquence ran like lightning tlirough the ranks of warriors, and their various 



TO lANTHE IN HEAVEN. 



49 



passions were shown conspicuously upon their features. The young shook their tomahawks in the 
air, and with demoniacal gestures, desired to be led against their enemies. 

At this moment, when all was excitement, the dwarf Pishairo stepped before Pontiac,_and after 
eyeing him for a moment, came closer to him, as if to impart an important secret. The sachem 
stooped down in a listening posture; the dwarf suddenly drew a knife and stuck it to the handle in 
his breast — the blade pierced the heart of Pontiac ! he sank upon the earth and died ; the mighty 
Pontiac, whose name carried terror even among the whites, expired at the feet of his base slave, the 
dwarf Pishairo. A loud burst of rage rang from the lips of every warrior present, who rushed up, 
and seizing the murderer, bore him from the council house ; they no longer thought of their chief, their 
whole thoughts were completely absorbed with revenge. They carried the traitor into an open space, 
and by piece-meal, they cut his flesh from his body. The wretch was one hour expiring. Their re- 
venge satiated, they returned to their fallen sachem, who lay upon the ground dead and stiff". They 
all silently gathered around, wrapped in profound and solemn thought, for now their rage had passed 
away. Long did they stand and silently gaze upon the marble features of him, whose frown could 
have awed so many. At length a chief arose, his hair was as white as the driven snow, and his once 
powerful frame was bent with years ; his voice trembled with age and emotion as he spoke, and he 
was listened to with reverential attention. He recanted the bold exploits of the fallen lion who was 
at their feet, and he dwelt long upon his virtues, which were as many and as bright as the dew-drops 
upon the leaves. The impression could not be resisted even by the stoical warriors ; the large tear- 
drops trickled down their cheeks despite their efforts to conceal them, as they looked upon all that 
remained of Pontiac, the last of the Ottawa sachems. And well might they weep ! for the gigantic 
mind, which kept their tribe to its pinnacle of power, had departed forever ! 

********** 

The daughter of Pontiac wandered about like a restless spirit, till at length she suddenly disap- 
peared from among them ; and for many moons did the red man search after her, but she was not 
to be found, and they finally concluded she had followed her father to the " great hunting grounds 
far away to the rising sun." At length she was discovered — she was the wife of the young com- 
mander of Fort Duquesne, and many of her descendants are living to this day. J. M. S^ 

Dayton, March 13, 1839. 



TO lANTHE IN HEAVEN 



B T E. A. P O E. 



Thou wast that all to me, love, 
For which my soul did pine — 

A green isle in the sea, love, 
A fountain and a shrine 

All wreath'd around about with flowers- 
And the flowers, they all were mine. 

But the dream, it could not last ; 

And the star of Hope did rise 
But to be overcast. 

A voice from out the Future cries 
" Onward !" — while o'er the Past, 

(Dim gulf!) my spirit hovering lies, 
Mute, motionless, aghast ! 



I For alas ! alas ! with me. 

Ambition, all, is oer — 
" No more, no more, no more" 
(Such language holds the solemn sea 

To the sands upon the shore) 
Shall bloom the thunder-blasted tree 

Or the stricken eagle soar. 

And all my hours are trances 
And all my nightly dreams 

Are where thy dark eye glances. 
And where thy footstep gleams, 

In what ethereal dances, 
By what eternal streams. 



REFLECTIONS IN A COUNTRY GRAVE YARD. 



Come, let us recline awhile beneath the wide-spreading branches of this ancient pine, and steal 
from the busy hours a few moments for wholesome meditation. Around us are reposing, in the 
calm tranquillity of dreamless sleep, the friends of our childhood — the beloved of our liper years. A 
holy melancholy, a subdued sorrow, rests with brooding wings upon this solemn bourne. These 
pale violets mark the hallowed spot where slumbers the young mother's darling — the proud father's 
hope. Tears, pure as parental love, have bedewed their opening buds — tears prompted by aflection 
so deep and true that the pure offering has found acceptance in the sight of Him, and a sweet and 
tranquil sorrow steals o'er the hearts of the youthful mourners, purifying and preparing them for 
the solemn change that awaits all mortality. Yon marble column glancing in the sunlight, a sculp- 
tured wreath encircling its cleft brow, tells us of the deep-springing affection of years by thy hand 
severed, oh ! death — of kind tones hushed — of the young household desolate — of the prattling cry 
of laughing infants for their dear mother's voice and smile stilled. The wife, the mother, rests be- 
neath. Mark that venerable monument, by wind-reft pines and time-worn oaks o'ershadowed ! Let 
us, with reverential step, approach and gaze upon its solemn face ! No more is heard the voice of 
admonition, or of calm advice. No more the joyous grand-children climb about grand-pa's knees, 
and shout with merry hearts at his jokes, or weep with breasts o'ercharged with sympathetic grief, 
while breathless listening to the old man's legendary tales. No more beside the cheerful hearth is 
seen that venerable form — that noble brow — those silvered locks. The old man here from his labor 
rests, and his fond family know him no more. Turn we to this simple slab of modest gray ; no 
name — no date proclaims who rests beneath. These deep-hewn lines will tell, perhaps, the story 
of his life. 

STRANGER, STOP! 

Offspring of dust, I dream'd 

A worm might soar ; 
By death to dust rcturn'd, 

I dream no more. 

Stranger, pass on ! 

Nor farther seek to learn ; 
I am, what thou 

Ere long shalt be — a worm. 

Sleep on, afflicted spirit, sleep ! Thy soul was seared by grief, and the pride of thy mortality, 
hath steeled thy heart against its holy influence. Truly, thou hast died as the worm dieth ; but thy 
soul — thy vivifying spirit — hath it gone out wilh thee ? Has the inborn power — the clear compre- 
hending intelligence — the calm, all-grasping reason — the deep, devoted affection — the all-sacrificing 
love — have these all ceased v/ith the throbbing of thy heart 1 Has the inner life — the ethereal es- 
sence — partaken of the decay and annihilation of thy material frame 1 The soft breath of the 
flower-scented morning whispers " No!" The soothing calm of summer's twilight eve murmurs 
" No !" The sheeted lightning and the crashing tempest thunder " No !" The insect humming 
through its happy hour — the shy bird sheltered in some quiet nook — pour forth their voice of love 
and inward sense of happiness. Think you, there mingles no tiibute of the heart with their har- 
monious hymnings '! And thou ! man ! whose mortality rests at my feet — thou, alone, had'st no 
offering for the great Jehovah. He who was, and is, and is to come. Well hast thou called thyself 
worm, if thou did'st feel not the immortal spirit within thee, like the imprisoned bird, beat at the 
material bars that caged it in, and bound it down, and barred it from the sun. 

Oh ! the dim memories, and twilight remembrances ! How like spirits of the air do they flit 
across our souls, wakening to life strange and mysterious recollections of things that have been — 
but when, or where 1 And the echo of the soul only answers, " When, or where V Who has 



SPIRITS OF THE DEAD, 



51 



not thrilled with those entrancing dreams — born of solitude and meditation — as if the soul struggled 
to o'ermaster its earthly doom, and, like a repentant wanderer, return to its old familiar haunts ! 
Say, skeptic, say ! 

Whence this pleasing hope, this fond desire, 
This longing after immortality 1 

It is the echo of a departed existence ; it is the far-off voice of the Past hailing the hurrying Pre- 
sent. Its tones are only heard in the calm of the hushed evening, or in the solemn stillness of the 
midnight hours. Then, when the listening spirit may almost hear the stately music of the revolv- 
ing spheres, 'tis thus she speaks — " Oh, Present! why, with fleet step and agitated mien, speed'st 
thou onward to thy bourne ? That which I was, thou art — what I am, thou shalt become. The 
doom is on thee, and thou can'st not wander from the one path. Why, then, oh why, by the silent 
■way-side wilt thou not sit down and listen to my voice l Thou can'st not hear it in the city's busy 
haunts, or in pleasure's lighted halls. And I will tell thee, oh ! Present, that thou art but a shadow — 
the shadow of the future, as I was of thee. Thou can'st not attain the real or the permanent with 
all thy strugglings. They appertain unto the Future. Let this solemn truth arrest thy anxious 
steps ! Cease to seek that which thou can'st not find, and suffer thyself silently to be borne on the 
calm waters of hope to the bosom of thy destiny. With liberal hand and thankful heart, pluck the 
sweet-scented flowers around thee springing, and let their fragrance sooth thee to rest. A happy 
and a contented spirit is the noblest and the fittest offering thou can'st place upon the altar of thy 
worship. Therefore, be wise, be contented, and thou shalt be happy." C, R. T. 



SPIRITS OF THE DEAD. 



I 



Thy soul shall find itself alone 

'Mid dark thoughts of the gray tomb-stone- 

Not one, of all the crowd, to pry 

Into thine hour of secrecy: 



Be silent in that solitude, 

Which is not loneliness — for then 
The spirits of the dead who stood 

In life before thee are again 
In death around thee — and their will 
Shall overshadow thee : be still. 



The night — tho' clear — shall frown — 
And the stars shall look not down, 
From their high thrones in the heaven, 
With light like Hope to mortals given— 



But their red orbs, without beam, 
To thy weariness shall seem 
As a burning and a fever 
Which would cling to thee for ever. 



Now are thoughts thou shalt not banish- 
I Now are visions ne'er to vanish — 
I From thy spirit shall they pass 
I No more — like dew-drop from the grass. 



The breeze — the breath of God — is still — 
And the mist upon the hill 
Shadowy — shadowy — yet unbroken, 
Is a symbol and a token — 
How it hangs upon the trees, 
A mystery of mysteries ! — 



A C H A P T E R 
o s 

FIELD SPORTS AND MANLY PASTIMES. 

BY AN EXPERIENCED PRACTITIONER. 



ARCHERY. 



80ME "WOIIDS CONCEllNllfG ITS ANTiq.UITT AN ACCOUNT OF ITS IMPORTANCE, ANB HIGH ESTI- 
MATION AMONG OUR BRITISH PROGENITORS ITS MODERN REGULATIONS AS A PASTIME ITS 

TAIIIOUS IMPLEMENTS AND THEIR USE. 



The use of the bow is of remote antiquity — its obvious simplicity of construction, as well as the 
purposes to which it is adapted, having rendered its employment almost universal from the very ear- 
liest periods of which we have any distinct account. But we do not wish to trouble our readers with 
a disquisition upon its ancient history. It was originally formed, no doubt, of the rough bough of a 
tree, but improvements would be almost immediately discovered. The simple branch would speedily 
be rendered more convenient by a little cutting, so as to make the curve regular on both sides of the 
centre. Homer tells us how the bow of Pandarus was fashioned — 

He heard, and madly at the motion pleased, 
His polished bow with hasty rashness seized. 
'Twas formed of horn, and smooth'd with artful toil; 
A mountain goat resigned the shining spoil. 
Who, pierced long since, beneath his arrows bled ; 
The stately quarry on the cliff lay dead. 
And sixteen palms his brows' large honors spread ; 
The workmen joined and shaped the bended horns, 
And beaten gold each taper point adorns. 

Herodotus says that the bows of the Ethiopians were four cubits, or not less than six feet long. 
The Grecian bow is said to have been of the figure of their own letter sigma. The Scythian bow 
was somewhat of the same form. The bows used by the Daci were made in a very beautiful curve. 
It has been supposed that the Romans introduced the bow into Britain, or at least very much im- 
proved those which they found in use among the natives, and in course of time it became the national 
weapon of the class of inhabitants called yeomen. 

But the Anglo-Saxons and the Danes were certainly well acquainted with the use of the bow; a 
knowledge they derived at an early period from their progenitors. The Scandinavian Scalds, speak- 
ing in praise of the heroes of their countiy, frequently add to the rest of their acquirements a supe- 
riority of skill in handling the bow. It does not, however, appear that this skill was extended be- 
yond the purpose of procuring food, or for pastime, either by the Saxons or by the Danes, in times 
anterior to the conquest. 

Representations of the bow occur frequently in the Saxon MSS. The cut annexed, taken from 
a manuscript of the tenth century found in the Cotton Library, gives the figure of a Saxon bow and 
arrow. The bow is curiously ornamented, having the head and tail of a serpent carved at the ends ; 
and was probably such an one as was used by the nobility. In all these old Saxon bows we may 
observe one thing remarkable, that is, the string not being made fast to the eitremities, but permitted 



ARCHERY. 



53 



to play at some distance from them. How far this might be more or less advantageous than the pre- 
sent method, we cannot presume to determine. 







^ 



It is well known that the Normans used the bow as a military weapon; and, under their govern- 
ment, the practice of archery was not only much improved, but generally diffused throughout the 
kingdom. 

In the ages of chivalry the usage of the bow was considered as an essential part of the education 
of a young man who wished to make a figure in life. The heroes of romance are therefore usually 
praised for their skill in archery ; and Chaucer, with propriety, says of sir Thopas, " He was a good 
archere." 

In the seventeenth century archery was much commended as an exercise becoming a gentleman 
to practice, and greatly conducivp to health. The ladies also were foud of this amusement. It was 
usual, when they exercised the bow, for the beasts to be confined by very large enclosures, sur- 
rounded by the hunters, and driven in succession from the covers to the stands, where the fair sports- 
women were placed ; so that they might readily shoot at them, without the trouble and fatigue of 
rousing and pursuing them. It is said of Margaret, the daughter of Henry the Seventh, that when, 
she was on her way towards Scotland, a hunting party was made for her amusement in Alnwick 
Park, where she killed a buck with an arrow. It is not specified whether the long-bow or the cross- 
bow was used by the princess upon this occasion ; we are certain, that the ladies occasionally shot 
with both, for when queen Elizabeth visited lord Montecute at Cowdrey, in Sussex, on the Monday, 
"Her highness tooke horse, and rode into the park, at eight o'clock in the morning, where was a 
delicate bowre prepared, under the which were her highness musicians placed ; and a cross-bow, by 
a nympth, with a sweet song, was delivered into her hands, to shoote at the deere ; about some thirty 
in number were put into a paddock, of which number she killed three oi four, and the countess of 
Kildare one." 

The foregoing observations refer chiefly to the lo7ig-how, so called, to distinguish it from the 
arbalisi, or a-oss-bow, which was not only much shorter than the former, but fastened also upon a 
stock, and discharged by the means of a catch or trigger, which probably gave rise to the lock upon 
the modern musket. We cannot pretend to determine at what period the cross-bow was first brought 
into England, but we believe not long before the commencement of the thirteenth century ; at least, 
we never meet with any representation of such an engine prior to that period. On the continent, 
where probably it originated, its appearance might be somewhat earlier. Historians assure us, that 
Richard the First was wounded by an arrow from a bow of this kind, while he was reconnoitering 
the walls of the castle of Chalezun ; which wound was the occasion of his death. 

The courage, discipline, strength and skill, displayed by British bowmen, during a period of 
more than six centuries, are so much a matter of ordinary history that it is hardly necessary to enlarge 
upon them here. In all the expeditions of which they formed a part, they proved to their adversa- 
ries a terror and a scourge. Even the bare appearance of a body of English archers in the field, often 
led to a bloodless victory ; and, as experience had proVed that the best armor was no protection against 
their arrows, their bold and confident spiiit often led them into very unequal contests. 

Secured in their position by an ingenious mode of fortification, — the materials for which each 
archer carried on his person, — the English bowmen laughed to scorn the fiercest charges of the steel- 
clad chivalry of the middle ages. Of all the European nations, none suffered more severely, or more 
requently, from the effects of their archery than the French. Like the Italians, when invaded by the 
Huns, — another nation of formidable bowmen, — they composed a mass, expressly depreciating the 
calamities it inflicted upon them : — " Ab AngUcorum nos defendejacidls /" — " From the arrows of 
the English, defend us, O Lord !" 

The ancient legislators, ever on the watch to encourage and enforce the practice of this art, once 
the sole guardian of the national independence, passed many judicious laws to prevent its falling into 
disuse. By these, a fine of one mark was levied on every master of a family who permitted any of 
his male inmates to be without a bow and three shafts, for the space of a month.* The local autho- 



54 burton's gentleman's magazine. 

rities were required to superintend the erection of public butts, in the environs of every town and 
village. Many of their ancient positions are yet known, however different the uses to which the 
ground where they once stood, is at present applied. 

The nobility and spiritual persons were, by law, excepted ; but men of every other rank and calling 
assembled, at these public shooting-grounds, to ply the sturdy yew and gallant gray goose wing. 
Thither the lordly baron sent his feudal vassals ; thither came the squire, the independent franklyn, 
the wealthy yeoman, the lude peasant, and the unwashed artizan. All formed one promiscuous 
multitude, of which the numbers, in populous districts, were so considerable that, after the first season, 
the grass never grew around these public marks. 

The sabbaths and other holidays vi'ere appropriated, by the statute, for these exercises of archery. 
But our British progenitors, enthusiastically attached to their favorite weapon, rendered all penal 
enactments, for a series of ages, unnecessary. The intervals of labor were all devoted to the shoots 
ing-giound, and their bows and arrows accompanied them in every excursion. 

The extreme range of a flight shaft, when discharged from one of their ancient bows, is stated to 
have been four hundred yards, or nearly one quarter of a mile.-j- At about a fourth of this distance, 
the war arrow would penetrate any ordinary breast-plate, and slay man or hoise at little short of 
two-thirds of it. To maintain and promote this strong and vigorous shooting, the statute of the 
33d of Henry the Eighth forbade any man, above the age of foui-and- twenty, to use the lighter kind 
of arrows, unless the butts were upwards of two hundred and twenty yards apart. After the pro- 
mulgation of this law, the strong and dexterous archers frequently increased the distance, of their 
own accord, to two hundred and forty yards. The practice is alluded to by Shakspeare, who, beyond 
all question, was not only a bowman, but an accomplished one. A contempt for mediocrity is one 
of the characteristics of genius. The pursuits of his juvenile days — for we have all read of his moon- 
light excursions to Charlecot Deer-Park, — the law of the land, which permitted no youth of his age 
and rank to remain one month without a bow and shafts — are sufficient evidence ; and, if more were 
wanting, we have it under his own hand. 

Burke once playfully observed — and the pointed sally is characteristic of that great man — th^t 
fox-hunting formed nf ui mportant balance of the British constitution. His meaning is sufficiently 
obvious. The chase, oy bringing the aristocracy into familiar contact with the gentry and middle 
classes of society, broke down the bar of exclusiveness, and led to a mutual interchange of good 
offices, socially, and in many instances, poUtically advantageous to each. 

" And surely" — says a very agreeable writer, and one evidently well conversant with the sub- 
ject — " the praise of these excellent qualities belongs more especially to modern archery. No visi- 
tant of the splendid bow-meetings which each revolving summer recals into existence, throughout the 
sylvan glades of this romantic land, ever remained uninfluenced by the joyous hilarity, the delight- 
ful ease and freedom which light each countenaKce with smiles. There, where men of various ranks, 
and, grace d Dieu ! women too assemble, to bear away — 

The arrow with a golden head, 
A.nd shaft of silver white, — 

the plumed hat and forest gieen place all upon a temporary equality. Superior adroitness alone con- 
fers distinction. The possessor of- a ducal coronet, whose ill-aimed shaft flies wide of the mark, cheer- 
fully yields precedence to the untitled bowman who has placed Ids within its broad circlet of gold. 
Hail then to the free, frank, and joyous spirits which compose an assemblage of British bowmen ! 
No doubt but the circumstances under which the arclier pursues his amusement, have considerable 
influence in producing this happy condition of mind. The balmy breezes of summer, — the charms 
of picturesque scenery, — the romance with which glorious tradition has invested his pursuits, — and 
the emulation engendered by the knowledge that most of his competitors boast a skill little inferior 
to his own, — keep the spirits in a state of agreeable excitement. He cannot be unconscious that he 
is ' the observed of all observers ;' for every attitude — whether it be the preliminary action of string- 
ing the bow, or the final one by which an arrow is discharged against a distant mark, — displays un- 
rivalled manliness and grace. His bow, arrows, belt, bracer and shooting-glove are, for the most part, 
exact counterparts of those used by England's yeomanry, five centuries ago. Even the attire in 
which he shoots bears a general resemblance to the costume of the same warlike period. These 
things never fail to tinge imaginations at all excitable with a strong feeling of enthusiasm; and 
which the regulations of an archery fete are certainly not calculated to weaken. The contest takes 
place in the presence, and amidst the plaudits, of assembled hundreds. 

Store of ladies, wl.oje bright eyes 
Eain influence and adjudge the prize, 

are there ; and from the hands of female beauty he receives the reward of his dearly-earned triumph. 

* Hints for a Justice of the Peace. 

f Neade's Double-armed Man. 4to., 1 627. 



ARCHERY. 



55 



It is to the good sense and discernment of the ' Woodmen of the Forest of Aiden' that we owe, 
in modern times, the introduction of the bow, as a suitable and healthful recreation for their fair 
countrywomen ,■ — and it was fortunate that their individual position in society entitled them to dic- 
tate laws to fashion, under whose powerful auspices the practice of archery by females was intro- 
duced to the world. 

ht Attended by a fair portion of the excitement peculiar to the chase, but without its perils and its 
cruelty requiring no excessive corporeal exertion — offering a combination of the rhost graceful po- 
sitions appropriate to every other exercise, — and invariably associated with refined and polished so- 
ciety, archery, from that time, made rapid advances in public estimation. The British fair quickly 

emancipated themselves from the ancient tyranny of back-bones, embroidery frames, spinnets, harp- 
sichords, and all the other foolery of their grandmothers. 

In the goode greene woode, 
Among the lilie flower, 

they sought that health and vivacity which pure air and active exertion can alone confer. 
?■ The ladies associated with the woodmen were, originally, restricted to their own, immediate family 
connexions. Soon, however, the admissions became less exclusive. The piizes awarded by this so*. 
ciety have always been distinguished for their splendor and variety. But the Aylesfords, the Mor- 
daunts, the Adamses, the Molands, and the Bagots, of the last — with the Boultbees, the Parkers, 
the Gresleys, and the Wises, of the present, age — the fair victors who have won, or still ' win and 
wear them' — have displayed a skill in all respects worthy of their magnitude. 




Mrs. Crespigny's public breakfasts were another interesting feature in the annals of female archery. 
Many a deUghtful morning's lounge did these same breakfasts afford to such of the ' fashionable 
world' as had the good fortune to obtain cards of invitation. They were the most literal and prac- 
tical illustrations of the utile dulci that I ever knew. The company shot ' games,' as they are caIIc«J 
in the technicalities of archery. Eleven was the decisive number ; and the arrows count according 
to their positions in the target. A shot in the gold circle reckons as nine, — the red, seven, — the 
inner white, five, — the black, three, — the outer white, one. Fines of half-a-crown were paid by the 
losers, the amount being appropriated to the support of a Sunday-school. The girls of the charity 
attended these archery meetings, attired in dresses of grass-green. 

One hundred yards was the space between the targets. When the gentlemen had shot, they 
walked, in procession with the ladies, thirty paces forward ; and the latter then discharged their ar- 
rows, at the unusual distance of seventy yards. Many will agree with me in thinking that these 
archety breakfasts might be judiciously revived, at the present day." 



(To be Cantinued.)&gt; 



TOL. T. — NO. I. 



c2 



REVIEW OF NEW BOOKS 



The History of the Navy of the United States of America. By J. Fenimore Cooper. Lea and 

Blanchard, Philadelphia. 

In appealing before the public with this History of our Navy, Mr. Cooper has had two serious 
difficuUies to surmount — one of prejudice, and one of exaggerated anticipation. It cannot be denied 
that, for many years past, he has been rapidly sinking in the estimation of his countrymen, and in- 
deed of all right minded persons. Even his firmest friends were becoming ashamed of the univer- 
sality of his cynicism ; and his enemies, ceasing in a measure from open hostility, have been well 
content to abide the apparently inevitable self-ruin which his own unconquerable ill temper was so 
speedily bringing about. A flashy succession of ill-conceived and miserably executed literary pro- 
ductions, each more silly than its predecessor, and wherein the only thing noticeable was the pee- 
vishness of the writer, the only thing amusing his self-conceit — had taught the public to suspect even 
a ladical taint in the intellect, an absolute and irreparable mental leprosy, rendering it a question 
whether he ever would or could again accoinplish any thing which should be worthy the attention 
of people not positively rabid. In this state of affairs, it was not ut all wonderful that the announce- 
ment of a Naval History of the United States, by the author of the attack upon Sir Walter Seott, 
was received with apathy and general distrust — with a feeling very different indeed from that which 
would have agitated the whole reading world at a similar announcement during the golden days of 
the celebrated novelist, and once exceedingly popular man. 

Among the few, on the other hand, who had better opportunities of penetrating the mystery, and 
fathoming the extent, of that obstinate disease of the spleen which had so long made the author a 
burden to himself, and an object of compassion to his friends — among those who knew the disorder 
not altogether incurable, and who had good reason to rely firmly upon the innate vigor and elastici- 
ty of the constitution — even among these we have noticed a want of proper consideration in regard 
to the subject matter of the anticipated work — a misconception of the extent and capacities of the 
theme — which has operated to the temporary disadvantage of the historian. 

Mr. Cooper's strength in sea narrative was well known, and justly appreciated ; and in a work 
on Naval Histoiy, much was expected of a character very similar to that which had afforded its 
charm to the " Pilot," and rivetted attention in the " Red Rover." This expectation would have 
been comparatively well founded had the announcement been that of a Naval Biography, Here, an 
allowable minuteness of detail would have given vigor and vitality to the narration, and the person- 
al adventures of the several heroes would have been overspread, in the simple discussion of fact 
with all the warm hues of the most spirit-stirring romance. In no general naval record, however, 
should we look too confidently for interest, beyond that grave species which is attached to the mere 
statement of fact. In records of our own marine, especially, we should look for little farther than 
this. The story of the simple events of our expeiience (for we are a nation of single ships) must 
always be deficient in that excitement which is derivable from the unity and majesty of the combined 
operations of fleets. Here then our sea-history labors under disadvantages not experienced by that 
of Europe. The tales we have to tell, of detached combat after combat, can form, at best, but a series 
of monotonous episode, where if the mind seeks, as it will, for connexion, this can only be establish- 
ed by means of a diy and barren mass of documental and statistical detail. 

Notwithstanding these difficulties, however, (whose importance we have by no means adequately 
pointed out) Mr. Cooper has succeeded in writing a book which cannot fad to do him lasting honor, 
not more in a literary point of view, than as affording evidence of the final triumph of his kindlier 
and more manly feelings over the promptings of Satan and the spleen. The very preface is redolent 
of a returning good humor — of a recovered modesty — of a resuscitated common sense. Mr. Cooper 
is evidently Mr. Cooper once again, and as such we most cordially welcome him home to the good 
XT ill, and to the affections, of his countrymen. That he, in preference to any one, should have writ- 
ten the Naval History of the United States, is a matter about which there is but little difference of 
opinion; and we rejoice, from the bottom of our heart, that he has arisen to the good work, from the 
moral death which has so long enwrapped him, while it is yet a convenient season for the under- 
taking — ^before the veteran actors in the drama have all passed away from among us — while there is 
yet many a tongue to tell what the eyeshave seen — many a living witness to the gallant and glorious 
exploits which have had so much to do in the rendering us, and in the preserving us, a free people. 



REVIEW OF NEW BOOKS. 57 

It is not our design, of course, to speak at length of any portion of a History which will speak scr 
very eloquently for itself. The narrative commences with the first settlement by the English, pro- 
ceeds with some details respecting the earliest achievements of the rival French and British colonies, 
connected with a clear and rapid survey of the condition of the maritime powers of Europe, and 
after discussing, in a masterly manner, every momentous event in the annals of our Navy, terminates 
•with the contest of 1812. The war of the Revolution is brought to a close about the middle of the 
first volume, and the more important subsequent occurrences occupy the lemainder of the publication. 

The work, as a whole, has, wc think, all the great requisites of a proper History — distinctness of 
narration, rigorous impartiality, an evident anxiety for truth, and a concise philosophical discussion 
of fact, rather than a shadowy speculation upon motive. Every similar book, as a matter of course, 
is liable to objection — to cavil — in regard to its detail ; and, in the present case, we have heard oc- 
casional censures upon which we scarcely think it necessary to comment. Battles, whether by sea 
or land, (and battles form our staple here) are seldom witnessed by distinct authorities from the same 
points of observation, and this fact alone is sufficient to account for a thousand immaterial discre- 
pancies. 

In legard to style, let us hear Mr. Cooper himself. 

" Some of the greatest writers of the age have impaired the dignity of their works, by permitting 
the peculiarities which have embelllslied their lighter labors to lessen the severity of manner that 
more properly distinguishes narratives of truth. This danger has been foreseen in the present in- 
stance, though the nature of the subject, which seldom rises to the level of general history, affords a 
constant temptation to offend. A middle course has been adopted, which, it is hoped, while some 
defects of execution may probably be detected, will be found on the whole to be suited to a recital of 
facts, in the familiar form that, in a measure, the incidents have demanded." 

The mere English of our author was never, at any period, remarkable for precision of arrange- 
ment, and however easily, in a work of pure romance, such defect may be disregarded, we must own 
that it derogates very materially from the beauty of an otherwise excellent historic style. In the 
volumes before us sentences occur, by far too frequently, where positive ambiguity arises from sheer 
negligence in regard to the ordinary proprieties of grammar. 

" Republicanism itself is brought into disrepute, in denying the just rewards of long services to 
officers, by attaching to it the weakness of a neglect of incentives, an ignorance on the subject of the 
general laws of discipline, and the odium of injustice. It is by forgetting the latter quality, more 
through the indifference of a divided power, than from any other cause, that republics have obtained 
their established character of being ungrateful." 

Here is great confusion of expression. By '' the latter quality" justice is intended, while 2??jus- 
tice is implied. 

" A territorial aristocracy, promotion, in both the army andthenav}', is the inevitable fruit of favor, 
or of personal rank." 

This sentence, as it stands, is utterly unintelligible, and can only be comprehended at all by placing 
before it the words immediately antecedent — which are " The nature of the English government is 
no secret." It now appears that the English government is " a territorial aristocracy." But every 
properly constructed sentence should have within itself the means of its own (grammatical) compre- 
hension. 

" The man who, refusing to adopt remedies that he believes unsuited to his constitution, is dis- 
creet, when he carries his system so far as to forget to look for others to supply their places, becomes 
careless and culpable." 

This exceedingly ambiguous proposition is rendered perfectly plain by merely a different arrange 
ment of the same words. 

" The man who is discreet in refusing to adopt remedies that he believes unsuited to his constitu- 
tion, becomes careless and culpable when he carries his system so far as to forget to look for others 
to supply their places." But upon this topic quite enough has been said. 

Mr. Cooper's observations on the subject of our general marine policy are, v/e think, among the 
very best portions of his book. They are strikingly comprehensive in view, and evince a profound 
knowledge of the true incentives of human action. Our limits will permit us to give but a small por- 
tion of his remarks. 

"A careful review of these facts and principles must satisfy all who study the subject, that the 
United States of America have never resorted to the means necessary to dovelope, or even in a limit- 
ed sense, to employ their own naval resources. As a consequence, they have never yet enjoyed the 
advai^tage of possessing a powerful marine in time of war, or have felt its influence in sustaining 
their negotiations, and in supporting their national rights in a time of peace. As yet the ships of 
America have done little more than show the world what the republic might do with its energies duly 
directed, and its resources properly developed, by demonstrating the national aptitude for this species 
of warfare. 

" But the probationary period of the American marine is passing away, and the body of the peo- 
ple are beginning to look forward to the appearance of their fleets on the ocean. It is no longer 
thought there is an unfitness in the republic's possessing heavy ships ; and the opinion of the country 



in this, as in other respects, is slowly rising to the level of its wants. Still many lingering prejudices 
remain in the public mind, in connexion with this all important subject, and some that threaten the 
service with serious injury. Of these, the most prominent are, the mode in which the active vessels 
are employed ; a neglect of the means of creating seamen for the public service ; the fact that there 
is no force in commission on the Ameiican coast; the substitution of money for pride and self-respectj 
^s the aim of military men ; and the impairing of discipline, and lessening the deference for the jusr 
tice of the state, by the denial of rank. 

" Undei the present system of employing the public vessels, none of the peculiar experience that 
belongs to the higher objects of the profession is obtained. While ships may be likened to regiments 
as regards the necessity of manoeuvring together, there is one important feature in which they are 
totally dissimilar. It may be pretty safely thought that one disciplined regiment will march as far, 
«adure as much, and occupy its station as certainly as another, but no such calculation can be made 
■an ships. The latter are machines, and their qualities may be improved by human ingenuity, when 
their imperfections have been ascertained by experiment. Intelhgent comparisons are the first step 
m this species of improvement. 

*' It will be clear to the dullest mind, that the evolutions of a fleet, and, in a greater or less degree. 
Its success, must be dependent on the qualities of its poorest vessels ; since its best cannot abandon 
their less fortunate consorts to the enemy. The naval history of the world abounds with instances^ 
in which the efforts of the first sea-captains have been frustrated by the defects of a portion of the 
ships under their command. To keep a number of vessels in compact order, to cause them to prer 
serve their weatherly position in gales and adverse winds, and to bring them all as near as possible 
up to the standard that shall be formed by the most judicious and careful commander, is one of the 
iiighest aims of naval experience. On the success of such eflorts depend the results of naval evolu- 
tions more frequently than on any dexterity in fighting guns. An efficient fleet can no more be 
formed without practice in squadrons, than an efficient army without evolutions in brigades. By not 
keeping ships in squadrons, there will also be less emulation, and consequently less improvement. 

" Under the present system three principal stations aie maintained ; two in the Atlantic, and one 
in the Mediterranean. On neither of these stations would the presence of a vessel larger than a sloop 
of war be necessary, on ordinary occasions, provided a force of heavy ships could periodically and un- 
expectedly appear on all. It is seldom that a single ship of the line is required on any sei-vice; and 
it is ceitain that a solitary two-decked vessel could have no great influence on those important in- 
terests which it is the practice of the rest of Christendom to refer to the agency of fleets. By putting 
in commission six or eight two-decked ships, and by causing them to appear, from time to time, on 
all the more important stations this side of the two great southern capes, the country, at no material 
additional cost, would obtain the several objects of practice in fleets, of comparative trials of the 
qualities of the most important class of vessels in the navy, of a higher state of discipline, and of a 
vast improvement in the habits of subordination on the part of commanders, a defect that all expe* 
rience shows is peculiar to the desultory mode of service now in use, and which has produced more 
naval disasters in the world than probably any other one cause. In a word, the principal ends of a 
siavy can no more be obtained, by the services of single ships, than wars can be decided by armies 
cut up into battalions." 



JLedure on the Study of Histwy, applied to the Progress of CiviUzatimi. Delivered by Appoint 
merit before the Union Literary Society, May 2d, 1839. 

A brilliant and bold production, bearing the impress of the mind of its author. With the tenets, 
liowever, here so well supported by Mr.Dimitry we will not altogether coincide. They border sMueT 
what too closely, in our apprehension, upon the eloquent madness of Turgot, Price, Priestly, Con', 
dorcet, and De Stael — yet, strange to say, none of these names occur in the Lecture with the excep- 
tion perhaps, of that of Priestly, in an incidental manner! There can be no doubt, however, at what 
sparkling fountains our author has imbibed his scarcely tenable notions of the perfectibility of man. 
For to this end, more than to any other, tend the doctrines and the arguments of the essay. In thfl 
position itself we have little faith, but great faith in the ability of our fiiend to make the best of a bad 
topic. This, in the present instance, he has undoubtedly accomplished, as the spirited passage aa- 
iiexed will testify more fully than any assertion of our own. 

" The highest degree of perfection to which man is, by nature, destined, grows out of the free an4 
complete development of his individuality, under the influences of beauty, goodness, and truth, aruj 
of his close and brotherly union with his fellow-laborers on earth. The principle of human perfeo» 
tibility will, therefore, when fully developed, induce a state in which mind and matter, reconciled to 
each other, will produce a lofty and splendid harmony; in which each special order of mind will find 
a corresponding object, and a proper sphere of action and usefulness ; in which man, instead of wast, 
ing his powers in fruitless strifes, will exert them in subjugating material nature; in which the iHr 



REVIEW OF NEW BOOKS. 59 

jury, accruing to one member, and profiting no one, shall be considered, by ail, as wrong inflicted 
on the whole of society ; in which the shackling of evil passions will put an end to the conflict be- 
tween virtue and vice — a conflict which will be survived by a generous emulation, only, among the 
worthy, to do the most good ; a state of rest, which will not be indolent inaction, and a state of action, 
which shall have ceased to be tumultvious agitation. Then, and then only, shall the promises of the 
martyr-God be realized. Then, and then only, shall it be truly said of man that he loves his neigh- 
bor as himself; for he will love him as a part of a whole, of which he himself is but another part. 
Then, and then only, shnll Japheth's daring seed, as the Roman lyrist calls us, i-econquer the sym- 
bolical Aiden, forfeited by the common ancestor, exulting in the choice spoils which they shall have 
gathered during their centuries of toil in the fields of the arts and the sciences. 

Such is the society which awaits the futurity of the world. Under what combination of circum- 
stance and time it shall be fashioned, cannot be ascertained. But history unerringly points to it — 
reason sanctions it ; while, at the same time, it teaches that it shall be given to man to compass its 
attainment ; for reason embodies certain invariable principles which, when once asserted and grasped 
by the people, ai'e used by them as a resting point for farther and extended operations. In regard to 
the principles themselves, their progress will no longer consist in variation, innovation, or change j 
but their immutability shall be the basis of all improvement, which, out of this condition, would be 
liable to the same oscillations and doubts, m the midst of which man has hitherto all but fruitlessly 
consumed his powers and his strength. Now, those principles will obtain so soon as natural law — 
I mean the law deduced from human reason, as a criterion of truth — the law inherent to our sociable 
nature, and harmonising with humanity in all places and time ; so soon as that law, in accordance 
with the moral law of Christiarrity, shall have every where supplanted the conventional law, which 
is not based, however we may try to conceal it, upon the general constitution of human nature, but 
upon the partial interests of individuals, corporations, cities, provinces, and States — upon the neces- 
sity of circumstances and the will of the lawmaker. 

That such a society may bs realized in a given time we are bound to believe with as much cer- 
tainty as we believe that we are gifted with the exercise of reason. We must, otherwise, surrender 
to the harrowing conviction that our appearance here is but an aimless and fantastic farce ; that some 
evil genius, after having engraved in our nature an instinct of that which is impossible, mocks at out 
insatiable appetences and our panting efforts round a charmed circle, in which we ever return to the 
starting point ; that, after all, the tradition of Tantalus is no fable ; and that this world is but a vast 
gehenna, irr which perpetual torture and perpetual disappointment are the inevitable lot of man. But 
how can we withhold our faith from a doctrine co-extensive with the mind, and brilliant as hope 
itself? A doctrine for which the Savior suffered on earth ; and which martyrs and sages have vin- 
dicated with their blood and their lives, offered up in testimony of its truth 1 Many may view these 
monitions of history as phantasms of the brain ; oi brand rational inductions as Utopian dreams. Let 
them ! When the first troglodyte issued from his cavern into the social world, and returned to his 
fellow-intelligent brutes with the story of civilization abroad, they met his words with derision and 
scorn ! They, bound in the darkness of their caves and the filth of their clay hovels, could not realize 
the splendors of the palace and the comforts of its life. They too — had the supercilious word, in- 
vent€d by their imitators, been known — they, too, would have exclaimed, Utopia! They, whose 
inch-deep intellect, or whose all-controlling prejudices, stop at the surface of things, and, viewing the 
evils only which still afflict society, pronoimce the notiotr of perfectibility to be chimerical and vain, 
they do not intelligently attend to the sober teachings of reason and truth. Marr, as a sensual being, 
belongs to the world of the senses ; and that is an habitual state of war between his physical powers'— 
a bellum omnium contra omnes — a war of all against all. But, again, man, as a rational being, also 
belongs to the world of mind ; and, as such, he is destined, by the law of his spiritual nature, to subf 
due the material world. The complement of that law will be to defeat the belligerance of material 
forces; and, at some providential period, to assert the full and definite triumph of reason, and the 
consequent prevalence of happiness and peace. Individuals now enjoy that triumph of reason and 
blessing of peace. Why should they not extend to the collective being called society 1 To argue 
that it cannot, is to argue that there is no essential law that will equally apply to man in. his indi- 
vidual and social capacity : it is to advance an unnatural, an anti-social, and a degrading paradox : 
it is to strike at the vitality of virtue, through the freedom of man's will, and madly to insult the 
superhuman wisdom of Him who made man the proxy of his power!" 



Franda^s Reign of Terror, being a Sequel to Letters on Paraguay. By J, P. and W. P. Bof 
hinson. E. L. Carey and A. Hart, Philadelphia. 

The " Letters on Paraguay" were exceedingly well received by the reading puDlic, and this is a 
matter not at all to be wondered at. Previous to their publication, little, comparatively, was knovm 
of the country they described, and that little was shadowy and vague. We knew that Paraguay 
existed ; that it was an inland region of South America ; that it had been the seat of the Jeauite. 



bi) BURTONS GENTLE ^lANS MAGAZINE-. 

that it had become independent of the mother country, and finally fallen under the dominion of a 
certain Doctor Francia. All farther than this has been a knowledge of recent date, due to the litera- 
ry labors of the Robinsons. 

Dr. Francia is, beyond doubt, one of the most remarkable characters of the age, and a man whose 
entire nature has been misunderstood. An array of startling facts here given, will go far to prove 
him a stern despot and a blood-thirsty tyrant, rather than the prudent and amiable pacificator which 
our imaginations have hitherto painted him. 



Isabel; or Sicily. A Pilgrimage, By Henry T, Tuckerman. Lea and Blanchard, Phila- 
delphia. 

Mr. Tuckerman is known as the author of the "Italian Sketch Book," and of many very readable 
articles in the magazines and annuals. Without much of profundity, of originality, or vigor, he is 
more than usually pure in style, and orthodox in sentiment. The present work will, we think, greatly 
enhance his reputation as a graceful and agreeable writer. The general plan has apparently been 
suggested by that of Bulwer's Pilgrims of the Rhine — although here the similarity ceases. 
Frederick Otley, an American gentleman, travels in Europe with the view of alleviating his grief 
for the loss of a beloved wife, leaving in his southern home a daughter, in charge of her uncle, his 
brother. The absence of the traveller is long continued, and the daughter, having grown to wo- 
manhood, forms the design of surprising him by a visit in Sicily, of which countiy Otley, in his last 
letter, expressed an intention of making the tour. The uncle accompanies her on the voyage, and the 
volume concludes with the re-union of the family. The main, indeed the whole design, is to pre- 
sent the reader with a picturesque account of Sicily, and with the author's own reflections during a 
tour in that comparatively little travelled portion of the old world. The chain of fiction above men- 
tioned, (which appears to us somewhat supererogatory) is given, says Mr. T., for the purpose of 
avoiding that egotistical tone from which it is dithcult to escape in a formal journal, as well as to 
obviate the necessity of dwelling upon those unimportant details and circumstances which aie com- 
mon to every tour m Europe, and therefore too familiar to be interesting. There is an air of quiet 
enthusiasm pervading the whole of tliis little book, which, insensibly, has its influence upon the 
mind of the reader — disposing him to think well of Mr. Tuckerman as a man, not less than to be 
pleased with him as an author. There is much in his character, as we gather it from " Isabel," of 
the warmest poetical impulse — of a perfectly unaffected romance. 



Memoirs of Celebrated Womeji, Edited by G. P. R. James, Esq., author of De V Orme, Life of 
the Black Prince, etc. etc. E. L. Carey and A. Hart, Philadelphia. 

In general we dislike such title-pages as this. There is a misty atmosphere of humbug all about 
them, through which we peer with a suspicious eye. Time was when the duties of an editor were 
matter of perfect simplicity — at least so far as concerned the public comprehension of these duties; 
but " we have changed all that" as the world grows older, and in every such announcement as we 
find here, there always \\es perdu a very pretty little enigma. 

In its solution there are several points to be considered. Sometimes, as in the case of those su- 
perb passionate tales the "Recollections of a Chaperon," the work will be written, as well as edited, 
by a Lady Dacre. Here there is an affectation of modesty — yet the affectation is not altogether un- 
graceful. Of all the modern editorship this is, beyond doubt, the species least objectionable. 

The editorship protective is cf a different class. Here, as in the case of Mr. Willis, (whose fine 
taste should have taught him more intelligible things,) the author makes a somewhat droll bow to a 
foreign audience, holding fast (God only knows why) to the arm of a Barry Cornwall. However, 
there is no harm in the world done, and the worst that can happen is a good hearty laugh on the 
part of the public. 

But there is a third order of this editorial humbuggery which is positively no joke, and which 
should never be regarded as such by any decent individual. An example is found in the case of the 
London publisher, Bentley, who had the downright impudence to get up, some time ago, a reprint 
of our own admirable " Nick of the Woods," and announce it (no doubt to the great edification of 
Dr. Bird,) as under the editorial supervision of Mr. Benjamin D'Israeli. 

In the present instance Mr. James evinces, we think, a sort of half consciousness of being engaged 
in a rather silly affair. The whole preface has the countenance oiun mouton qui reve. " To day," 
he says, with the air of an injured man, " it is necessary for an editor to state what he really has 
done for the work he edits, lest any false impression should be adopted by the pubhc." Having 
premised thus much, he goes on to show very clearly that in the case now in question he has done — 
piecisely nothing at all. We could not wish a better commentary upon the whole editorial system. 



REVIEW OF NEW BOOKS. 61 

The work itself (which we are told, is by an aunt of the author of Richelieu) is a plainly written 
compilation of interesting matters, sufficiently familiar to every ordinary reader of history. We have 
memoiis of Joan of Arc, of Margaret of Anjou, of Lady Jane Grey, of Anna Commena, of Madame 
de Maintenon, of Elizabeth of England, and of Donna Maria Pacheco. 



Advice to a Young Gentleman on entering Society. By the Author of the " Laws of Etiquette" 
Lea and Blanchard. Philadelphia. 

Taking up tliis volume with a strong feeling of prejudice, induced by a certain ad captandum 
air in the title, our attention was ri incited by the very initial sentences, and before getting through 
with the second page we acknowledged the hand of a master. The book is replete with a wordly 
wisdom even profound ; it is the product of a vigorous and cultivated mind, imbued with a thorough 
knowledge of its subject, and discussing it con amore. 

The leading truths here inculcated, are, we think, the more important, because, being through 
their very nature confined to superficialities, or apparently so confined, the world at large is easily 
disposed to fall in with those frequent opinions of the grave and learned which declare them inessen- 
tial. But in this case we challenge the judgment of the tribunal, and will not abide by any decision 
which shall be " grave and learned." Pour savoir ce qu'il est (^DieuJ ilfaut etre Dieu meme, says 
the Baron de Bielfeld, in speaking of a more august subject ; but the spirit of his remark is abund- 
antly applicable to the present matter in hand. To form any just estimate of the importance of 
habitual intercourse with our fellows, and, more especially, of an attentive regard to the modelling 
and polishing of our social habits, we must already be men of the world — we must have felt all the 
miseries of a niauvaise honte, and have revelled in all the luxury of a disenthralment from its bonds. 

Upon the evils of an absolutely unsocial eKistence it is folly to comment. He who has, at any 
period, entered with heart into the proper spirit of a high society, will find even a temporary with- 
drawal from its usages (urged, let us say, by necessity, or induced by disgust, or sought for the se- 
verer purposes of study) followed by very serious inconveniences, often by poignant mortifications, 
always by a thorough conviction of man's unfitness for such existence, and of its enervating and de- 
basing influence upon his intellectual powers, if not upon the whole organization of his moral being. 
Collecting and concentrating in his retirement an imaginary strength, the solitary student makes at 
length, for some long designed effort, a step into the world of busy life — but this step is feebly and 
irresolutely advanced. A farther progress fully awakens him to his weakness and his folly. The 
volition is in abeyance, which should vivify his forces, and impart to them decision. He now feels 
and perhaps acknovvledges his error. 

We could name no book whatever, in which are better exemplified the truth of opinions such as 
these than in the unpretending volume now before us. In almost every respect it is a valuable and 
exceedingly well written treatise. Among the detailed precepts which form its body there is, per- 
haps, little to be found which the letters of Lord Chesterfield have not already given. But without 
the oflTensive heartlessness of those very objectionable writings, this American work equals them, at 
least, in all their reputable poists — in vigor of thought and diction, in acumen, in practicability, and 
in eyideiaces of wordly knowledge. 



A Synopsis of Natural History ,- embracing the Natural History of Animals, with Human and 
General Animal Physiology, Botany, Vegetable Physiology, and Geology. Translated from 
the latest French Edition of C. Lemmonnier, Professor of Natural History in the Boyal Col- 
lege of Charlemagne ,- luith Additions from the Works of Cuvier, Dumaril, Lacepede, etc. Ar- 
ranged as a Text Book for Schools. By Thomas Wyatt, A. M., Author of Elements of Botany, 
a Manual of Conchohgy, etc. Thomas Wardle, Philadelphia. 

Mr. Wyatt is favorably known to the public as the author of an exceedingly well arranged, ac- 
curate, and beautifully illustrated " Conchohgy," and has been mainly instrumental, we believe, in 
drawing that public attention to the science in this country which is now so obviously manifested. 
We hope that his success with the present publication will be commensurate with the wider range 
which he has taken. It cannot be denied that a synopsis such as he now puts forth has been long 
a desideratum. While there has been no deficiency of school books in any one of the sciences em- 
braced within a proper course of Natural History, it must still have occurred to many as singular, 
that in a study whose very existence may be said to depend upon method, there should have been, 
hitherto, no attempt at collecting the parts into an easily discernible whole. 

As the work of Mr. Wyatt professes to be simply a translation of the well known Tableaux of 
M. Lemmonnier, we need say little more in the way of recommendation than that all the useful 
spirit of the original has been preserved — and this we say from personal knowledge, and the closest 



62 burton's gentleman's magazine. 

inspection and collation. In changing the tabular form of the French publication to one better suit- 
ing the purposes of our x\merican schools, some little latitude was of course admissible and unavoid- 
able. The book is a large octavo, beautifully printed on fine paper, and illustrated by forty-nine well 
executed plates. Copies, colored with accuracy, under the superintendence of Mr. James Ackermann, 
are for sale at our principal bookstores. The whole work does credit to all parties, and should be 
patronized, not less for its intrinsic value than as a matter of just poUcy, by all Philadelphians who 
have the publishing interest of the city at heart. 



Sketches of Public Characters, Discourses, and Essays, To which is added a Dissertation on the 
Eloquence of the Ancietits. By Henry Lm-d Brougha7n. Philadelphia, E. L. Carey and A. 
Hart. 

This is an exceedingly interesting work, and should be in the hands of every one who reads at 
all. The first volume is made up of the mtroductions to the different speeches of Lord Brougham, 
which were intended to elucidate the history of certain measures discussed, and, incidentally, of the 
periods to which they related. The aim is, to give a pictui'e of the times, in an account of the per- 
sons who bore the chief part in their transactions, in the supposition that the course of state affairs^ 
their posture at any given period, and the nature of the different measures propounded from time to 
time, can only be well understood by giving an accurate representation of the characters of those 
who figured most remarkably upon the stage. This portion of the book embraces a world of detail 
concerning Cobbett, Stephen, Perceval, Roscoe, Lord Castlereagh, Homer, Wilberforce, Bentham, 
Sir James Mackintosh, Canning, Huskisson, Grattan, and others. 

The second volume is occupied with Lord Brougham's inaugural discourse on being installed 
Lord Rector of the University of Glasgow ; practical obsei-vations upon the education of the people ; 
and a dissertation on the eloquence of the Ancients ; with an appendix of translations from De- 
mosthenes. In the matters here contained. Lord Brougham fully sustains his reputation for sound 
scholarship, as well as profound and luminous criticism. The whole work is imbued with the racy 
spirit of the author's own intellect — an intellect essentially Demosthenic in the almost rude strength, 
directness, and impetuosity of its operations. We cannot too pointedly press this excellent publi- 
cation upon the attention of our readers. The following passage is from a paper on marriage, di- 
vorce, and legitimacy. 

" To illusti-ate by example his (Sir Wdliam Scott's) singularly refined and pungent wit in con- 
versation, or the happy and unexpected quotations with which he embellished it, or the tersely told 
anecdotes with which he enlivened it, without for an instant fatiguing his audience, would be diffi- 
cult — ^because it is of the nature of the refined essence in which the spirit of the best society con- 
sists, not to keep. When some sudden, and somewhat violent changes of opinion were imputed to 

a learned judge, who was always jocosely termed Mrs , " Varium et mutabile semper fcemina" 

was Sir William Scott's remark. A celebrated physician having said, somewhat more flippantly 
than beseemed the gravity of his cloth, " Oh, you know. Sir William, after forty a man is always 
either a fool or a physician!" " May'nt he be both. Doctor 1" was the arch rejoinder, with a most 
aich leer, and insinuating voice, half drawled out. " A vicar was once," (said his lordship,* presi- 
ding at the dirmer of the Admiralty sessions) " so wearied out with his parish clerk confining himself 
entirely to the 100th psalm, that he remonstrated, and insisted upon a variety, which the man pro- 
mised ; but old habit proving too strong for him, the old words were as usual given out next Sun- 
day, ' All people that on earth do dwell.' Upon this the vicar's temper could hold out no longer, 
and, jutting his head over the desk, he cried, ' Damn all people that on earth do dwell !' — a very 
compendious form of anathema," added the learned chief of the spiritual court." 

* Sir W. Scott was, durmg the latter years of his life, created a peer, by the title of Lord Stow- 
ell ; but it is by his former name that he is known to the profession, and to the world. 